
            We use cookies to give you the best online experience. Please let us know if you agree to all of these cookies.
        

                A doctor suggests the virus arrived in France almost a month earlier than previously thought
            
A patient diagnosed with pneumonia near Paris on 27 December actually had the coronavirus, his doctor has said.

Dr Yves Cohen said a swab taken at the time was recently tested, and came back positive for Covid-19.

The patient, who has since fully recovered, said he had no idea where he caught the virus as he had not been to any infected areas.

Dr Cohen, head of emergency medicine at Avicenne and Jean-Verdier hospitals near Paris, said the patient was a 43-year-old man from Bobigny, north-east of Paris.

He was admitted to hospital on 27 December exhibiting what later became to be known as the main coronavirus symptoms, including a dry cough, a fever and trouble breathing.

This was four days before the World Health Organization's China country office was informed of cases of pneumonia of unknown cause being detected in the Chinese city of Wuhan.   

Dr Cohen said two of the patient's children had also fallen ill but that his wife had not shown any symptoms. But Dr Cohen pointed out that the patient's wife worked at a supermarket near Charles de Gaulle airport and could have come into contact with people who had recently arrived from China. 

The patient's wife said that "often customers would come directly from the airport, still carrying their suitcases".

"We're wondering whether she was asymptomatic," Dr Cohen said. He called for the potential link to be investigated further. 

Until now, what were thought to have been the country's first three cases of coronavirus were confirmed on 24 January. 

Of those, two had been to Wuhan - where the outbreak was first detected - and the third was a close family member.

This positive test result suggests the virus was present in France much earlier and will change the understanding of how it spread.

"This case will allow us to better understand the evolution of the virus on French soil," Dr Cohen told the BBC.

Rowland Kao, a professor of veterinary epidemiology and data science at the University of Edinburgh, said that if confirmed, this case highlighted the speed at which an infection starting in a seemingly remote part of the world could quickly seed infections elsewhere. 

"It means that the lead time we have for assessment and decision-making can be very short, emphasising the need for preparedness, planning and rapid global communication of disease threats," Prof Kao said.

Jonathan Ball, professor of molecular virology at the University of Nottingham, urged further research: "Sequencing any virus in the sample might give you insight into whether or not the virus truly was an early isolate or likely contamination."

Prof Ball said that sequencing the virus could be prove difficult, however, as it looked from the data that the amount of virus in the sample was low.

The first human-to-human transmission within Europe had until now thought to have been a German man who was infected by a Chinese colleague who visited Germany between 19 and 22 January.

A post-mortem examination carried out in California revealed that the first coronavirus-related death in the US was almost a month earlier than previously thought
Dr Cohen told the Newsday programme that he had the idea to look back at all patients who had been in intensive care units with suspected pneumonia between 2 December and 16 January.

He found 14 patients who had tested negative for pneumonia. He defrosted their samples and tested them for traces of Covid-19.

He said that out of the 14 samples, one tested positive for traces of Covid-19. A second test on that same sample also came back positive. He added that the patient's chest scan was also compatible with the symptoms of Covid-19.

Dr Cohen said he had alerted the National Health Agency (ARS), and was urging other virologists to re-test swabs in their hospitals for Covid-19.

A full report was due later this week, and would be published by the International Journal of Antimicrobial Agents, he added.
