We use cookies to improve our service for you. You can find more information in our data protection declaration.
After being turned away by Malaysia, at least 500 Rohingya refugees facing persecution in Myanmar have spent two months at sea. Now one boat of 29 people has been sent to an "uninhabitable" Bangladeshi island.
The refugees, including 15 women and six children, were trying to land in the city of Cox's Bazar, the head of Bangladesh's Refugee Relief Commission told Germany's DPA news agency.
"They will initially be under the naval custody at the island until the commission formally takes responsibility," said Mahbub Alam Talukder. As the head of Bangladesh's refugee strategy, he oversees over 1 million Rohingya Muslim refugees in camps in the southeastern Cox's Bazar region.
Rights groups say the refugees are among 500 who have spent months at sea after being repeatedly denied access to Malaysia and other countries in the region. Malaysia has closed its borders to refugees during the coronavirus pandemic, leaving the Rohingya people escaping persecution in Myanmar stuck at sea.
The island of Bhasan Char was first floated by Bangladeshi authorities as a place to house refugees in 2015. The idea was met with criticism by the UN and the Human Rights Watch.
The island has been described as "uninhabitable" by the UN in the past. Appearing from the ocean less than 20 years ago, the silt island currently has no residents. Bangladesh says they have built housing for 100,000 refugees.
This group will be the first refugees to be housed there. Food, doctors and a team of 10 policemen are on their way to look after the boatload.
The Rohingya people have experienced ethnic and religious persecution in Myanmar for decades. Rohingya refugees have been coming to Bangladesh since 2017, when the military in Buddhist-majority Myanmar began a harsh crackdown on the Muslim group. They are not recognized as citizens of Myanmar, rendering them stateless.
A community radio station is working to inform the Rohingya in a refugee camp in Bangladesh about the coronavirus through reports over the loudspeaker and special broadcasts. The production conditions are a challenge. (08.04.2020)
  
The small vessel was attempting to carry 124 people on the 2,000-mile journey to Malaysia. Refugees are reportedly being wooed away from Bangladeshi camps by traffickers. (11.02.2020)
  
Top development official Gerd Müller has promised to step-up efforts to improve education for young people in Rohingya refugee camps. Müller pledged the funds after a meeting with Bangladesh's prime minister. (26.02.2020)
  
The Rohingya Muslim refugees had been at sea for close to two months after failing to reach Malaysia. Most were women and children. 
Exploited and without adequate protection, tens of thousands of migrant workers are meeting the global spike in demand for medical gloves in Malaysia as the coronavirus pandemic drags on. But at what cost? 