There have been about 940 violations so far this year, most of which have targeted populated areas with artillery fire, heavy-calibre mortars and automatic weapons. — Reuters/File

ISLAMABAD: Pakistan on Saturday asked the United Nations to seek proof from India about the alleged ‘terror launch pads’ near the Line of Control (LoC) and offered full cooperation with the UN military observers for probing the accusations.
“Pakistan formally offers the United Nations to approach India for obtaining information of alleged launch pads and share the same with UNMOGIP, who will be welcomed to move into any area without sharing specifics with the Pakistan government to validate Indian claims,” Foreign Office said in a media statement.
There has been a flurry of allegations from Indian Defence Minister Rajnath Singh, Army Chief Gen MM Naravane and other officials about the so-called ‘terrorist launch-pads’ on the Pakistani side of the LoC and infiltration bids.
The allegations accompanied intensification of ceasefire violations at LoC. There have been about 940 violations so far this year, most of which have targeted populated areas with artillery fire, heavy-calibre mortars and automatic weapons.
The FO recalled that it had on several occasions in the past denied “the baseless Indian allegations of infiltration attempts” and “preposterous claims of targeting of fictional launch pads”. However, it noted Indian propaganda was “incessant”.
Pakistan fears that India could use the allegations for launching “false flag operation” and diverting the global attention from human rights abuses in occupied Kashmir.
“As Pakistan has consistently pointed out, regurgitation of these allegations and spurious claims by India is aimed at diverting the world’s attention from India’s state-terrorism and grave human rights violations in Indian occupied Jammu and Kashmir. India also seeks to use these allegations as a pretext for launching ‘false flag’ operation and deliberately targeting of innocent civilians along the LoC,” the statement maintained.
The FO said Pakistan has always been transparent about its commitment of not allowing the use of its territory against anyone. In this regard, it mentioned the LoC tours organised by Pakistan government for Islamabad-based diplomats, journalists, observers and human rights organisations.
Foreign diplomats taken to Neelum Valley to debunk Indian army claim of destroying 'terror launch pads'

Foreign diplomats taken to Neelum Valley to debunk Indian army claim of destroying 'terror launch pads'

Can we admit and move on to strengthen economy. China has  not given any relief loans to us For corona. So what will we do now?
False allegation is not good, but past experience is different, anyway UN monitoring is a welcome move.
What kind of proof? Paper, video, text, telephonic conversations..............and everyone knows the conclusion.
Pakistan should just reject this type of false allegation.  There is no use of these additional efforts.
In this era of satellites still sticking to tours to collect evidences? Move on to 21st century with eyes in the sky.
India has GPS satellites to gather surveillance evidence. Get out of this UN tour to collect evidence mindset, move to the 21st century.
Take any actor you like. Touch their heart. If there’s no humanism pulsating in it, they are probably not great actors. 
    
THE government is mulling a relaxation of lockdown restrictions as it is confronted with alarming repercussions.... 
    
THE Pakistan Cricket Board’s recent move to arrange online lectures by eight legendary cricketers for the benefit... 
    
FOR far too many, life is a series of insurmountable challenges that prevent a full realisation of individual... 
    
THE PIA management’s decision to annul working agreements with various employees’ associations may have been... 
    