As one of Spain's smaller Balearic islands, Formentera has been allowed to reopen a week earlier than others
Larger islands such as Majorca will be able to reopen a week later, from May 11, in line with the rest of Spain, but Spanish citizens will only be able to travel between provinces at a later date in the de-escalation plan, potentially from June onwards, while international borders remain closed.
The Majorca Hoteliers Federation and Association of Hotel Chains expressed “disappointment and stupefaction” in a statement, arguing that the de-escalation plan was unfeasible, as with no international flights there would be no business. Furthermore, the financial burden placed on large resort hotels working at limited capacity, but with a full complement of staff, would prove untenable.
However, Dierdre O’Connor, founder of luxury hotel information and booking portal MallorcanTonic, told The Telegraph she has seen a surge in online interest for luxury hotel holidays from the British, American and German markets and maintains an optimistic outlook. “Many hotels will consider offering flexible rates and relaxed booking conditions this summer and autumn, and some clients could see savings of as much as 20 or 30 percent on 2019 rates,” she said, adding that she feels “confident that there will be tourists coming to the island this summer and right through to December when the weather can be fabulous.”
Cabau Hotels director Vanessa Cabau echoed these sentiments, saying: “There are still many uncertainties but we are very hopeful that tourists will be visiting Majorca and Ibiza this summer [...] Of course additional travel costs may have a negative effect on volume, and if that happens prices may need to be revised.”
“However, transport to and from the island is still very limited so unless our guests want to be dropped off [by] parachute, we will have to wait a few weeks before we can open.”
Meanwhile Palma's luxury five-star Cappuccino Hotel, which will reopen at the end of May, reported new UK reservations for August. Other Palma hotels are waiting for international air travel to resume, while outside Palma, it is likely that some larger resort hotels will remain closed until Easter 2021, with some smaller establishments island-wide re-opening when international flights resume, hopefully later this summer.
Abigail Lowe, who covers Ibiza and Formentera for The Telegraph, said: “For many, the cost of opening and running a business simply won’t be worth it, and recruiting staff will become an impossible task – as a result, we should expect many of our most loved haunts on the islands to remain closed this year. Over on Ibiza and it’s an even more complicated picture. The latest updates seem to suggest that no gatherings above 400 people (who must be seated) will be permitted, which will hit the clubbing industry hard.”
According to the Spanish government, phase three of its lockdown exit plan, due in June, should see the opening of swimming pools and beaches, as long as the infection rate in Spain continues to drop.
We urge you to turn off your ad blocker for The Telegraph website so that you can continue to access our quality content in the future.