Authorities have been noticeably absent or inactive as presumed drug traffickers continue to distribute basic food items and supplies to poor citizens while openly proclaiming their gang affiliations and carrying automatic rifles in several municipalities in Jalisco.
Videos posted to social media during the week showed armed men claiming to belong to the Jalisco New Generation Cartel (CJNG) handing out bags of supplies to grateful residents. In none of the videos are any of the men approached by police or other authorities regarding the open carrying of illegal weapons.
Once out of supplies, the armed men climbed into two vehicles and left the scene without any problems from authorities.
Many social media users denounced the fact that the presumed drug traffickers were allowed to carry out such actions unimpeded while police in Guadalajara and the nearby municipality of Tala were in the streets stopping people for not wearing face masks.
Similar events were recorded in the municipality of Tonalá, where a video captured a police car driving in the background behind a presumed gang member handing out supplies. The police did not stop.
“Thank you, Mr. Mencho for the supplies that you gave us here in Tecalitlán,” citizens said in the videos filmed by the presumed gang members.
But the criminal organization has a presence far beyond the Jalisco state lines. Some of the videos that went viral during the week showed CJNG members handing out supplies to people as far away as Guatemala.
Although the Jalisco state government called the incidents “isolated,” they were not the first of such charitable actions by normally violent drug trafficking organizations.
When asked about the incidents, Jalisco Governor Enrique Alfaro Ramírez said that “it’s just what these groups want … to call attention [to themselves] and continue lending importance to these events.”
His administration announced on Friday that a group of Jalisco citizens who now reside in the United States have offered to collaborate with the state government to carry out a donation matching campaign. Alfaro’s government has committed to match every box of supplies donated by the citizens who have emigrated.
Over 700 restaurants that were closed due to Covid-19 were to reopen today and provide takeout and home delivery service.
Members of norteño bands from have taken to the streets to play music and earn what they can, being out of work due to Covid-19.
The weekly street market in Chilapa was cancelled on Sunday for the first time in 500 years in response to the Covid-19 pandemic.
A lack of hospital beds, ventilators and protective equipment for health workers is a product of the years of neoliberalism in Mexico, president charges.
A company owned by the son of Manuel Bartlett has been awarded at least seven government contracts worth 162mn pesos, wrote journalist Carlos Loret de Mola.
One opinion poll shows that the president’s approval rating dropped four points to below 50%. But another says his popularity increased eight points to 68%.
Over 700 restaurants that were closed due to Covid-19 were to reopen today and provide takeout and home delivery service.
Despite economic unrest and massive unemployment in the U.S. due to the coronavirus, remittances to Mexico reached an all-time high in March.
Members of norteño bands from have taken to the streets to play music and earn what they can, being out of work due to Covid-19.
The weekly street market in Chilapa was cancelled on Sunday for the first time in 500 years in response to the Covid-19 pandemic.
Humans were never meant to live alone, not to mention that Mexican culture and the Mexican way of life are particularly ill-suited for social distancing.
The manner in which former employees of the tourism industry are forced into moving from the cities and back to small towns is aggravating tensions.
Each year Mexico rolls the dice and makes a huge options bet on the future direction of oil prices. It’s called the “Hacienda Hedge” or the “Pemex Hedge.”
Potatoes, seemingly a common and innocuous vegetable, are actually full of wonders when understood and prepared properly.
Mexico’s most popular taco originated in the Middle East but why they should be called “shepherd’s tacos” is anybody’s guess.
Analysis finds that large urns discovered in Jalisco were used to make tejuino, a traditional corn beer.