THE National Telecommunications Commission (NTC) ordered embattled media giant ABS-CBN to stop its broadcast and radio operations, a day after its legislative franchise expired.
As ABS-CBN continued its business on Tuesday , the NTC issued a cease and desist order against the network.
The NTC said that ABS-CBN “no longer has a valid and subsisting congressional franchise” to continue broadcasting on radio and television.
Once the government-run regulator receives ABS-CBN’s response, the NTC will schedule the case for hearing, to be set after the lockdown.
Congress resumes session today and is expected to concentrate on measures to reinforce the government’s coronavirus disease 2019 (Covid-19) response.

The House and Senate will...
As communities transition from an enhanced quarantine to general quarantine, Sen. Maria Lourdes Nancy Binay suggested the formation of an army of “Covid trackers”...
The national government’s outstanding debt rose to a record P8.17 trillion at the end of March, fueled mainly by domestic borrowing, Bureau of the...
Residents in areas under general community quarantine (GCQ) can resume work, but they should continue to observe protocols mandated by the Department of Health...
The global death toll from the coronavirus pandemic topped a quarter of a million on Tuesday, with the US government predicting a further surge...
Regulators clarified that online casino service providers do not qualify for any tax incentives despite being classified by the government as business process outsourcing...
President Rodrigo Duterte has ordered the Department of Justice (DoJ) to study the legality of preventing Filipino healthcare workers from migrating to other countries...
SENATE President Vicente Sotto 3rd wants to amend a law to move the opening of classes in both public and private schools to September...
After 16 years of marriage, actress Assunta de Rossi announced she is finally pregnant.
The 37-year-old mom-to-be, who married former Negros Occidental Congressman Julio “Jules”...