Past austerity measures have made Turkish people distrustful of the fund, but economists believe Ankara needs to find resources fast for its maturing foreign debt
People wearing a protective facemask shop at a street market in Ankara, on April 22, 2020, ahead of the Muslim holy month of Ramadan. (AFP)
The results could come as happy news to President Recep Tayyip Erdogan, who has in recent years campaigned against the IMF, even calling it last year “the biggest usurer around the world”.
The Erdogan administration paid the final instalment of an IMF loan in 2013, and since then has gloated about its success in becoming financially independent.
The financial body's reputation is apparently little higher among the Turkish people: 56 percent of respondents said they don’t trust the IMF and 43 percent said they believe there would be a cost if Turkey takes a loan from it.
Past austerity measures insisted upon by the IMF, which squeezed Turkish people through budget cuts and privatisations, have contributed to its poor standing.
For example, last year Kemal Kilicdaroglu, head of the CHP opposition party, labelled the government's economic programme as “IMF-inspired” in an attempt to discredit it.
Just over the weekend, Ramazan Kurtoglu, a popular economist, claimed that the IMF has required Sub-Saharan African countries to vaccinate children and plant microchips in them to meet criteria for a loan.
However, economists are ringing alarm bells as economic conditions in the country worsen. The IMF expects that the Turkish economy will contract 5 percent this year due to the pandemic.
“It is true that the IMF has some disadvantages for the ordinary employees. An IMF deal might mean less annual salary increase for the public employees and for the minimum wage,” Soydan told Middle East Eye.
“However you have to pay this debt one way or another. Either you are going to get a swap line from the Fed, getting dollars in return of Turkish lira, or an IMF loan. One could also choose to watch the big businesses going bankrupt because of lack of funds. That’s a choice.”
'You have to pay this debt one way or another. Either you are going to get a swap line from the Fed, getting dollars in return of Turkish lira, or an IMF loan'
However, according to Soydan the coronavirus has put Turkey in a previously unseen position, because the crisis itself was unprecedented. “This time you don’t have some incomes you used to have,” he added.
Central bank governor Murat Uysal said last month that Turkey has been seeking swap lines with other central banks to provide more liquidity. A Turkish official told MEE last month that Erdogan relayed a request to get a swap line from the US Federal Reserve in a phone call with President Donald Trump. 
In March, the Fed added temporary lines to the central banks of Brazil, South Korea and Mexico to support financial markets around the world as they struggle with coronavirus. US officials say the swap line decision is entirely financial and it is up to the Fed to make the move on whether to grant a line for Turkey. 
Some in Turkey believe an IMF loan should be avoided because it is an easy way to avoid chronic fiscal problems, without addressing the root causes.
“I see the IMF as a crutch. If we take a loan we will pay it in five years, and 10 years later we will knock on their door again,” he said.