While banks are slashing lending rates, it's business as usual for payday lenders, now considered essential services during the pandemic.
Payday lenders are still charging ultra high interest rates on loans during the pandemic. File photo by Doug Ives/CP
Ten years ago, Rori took out her first payday loan. Then 29, she was living in social housing in Toronto and needed a couple hundred dollars.
“In the beginning it was great. It was really easy to get the payday loan when I needed money between paycheques and I could pay them back on my next payday,” said Rori, whose last name has been omitted to protect her privacy.
A decade later, having had to support her mom who became ill with cancer, her loans from payday lenders have multiplied and ballooned. Now, as someone who was working in the food services industry before the coronavirus pandemic, the former chef and fast-food attendant has found herself suddenly unemployed—and has collection agencies after her for the $6,300 she still owes to three payday lenders.
A payday loan is a cash advance on a paycheque or government assistance like the Canada Emergency Response Benefit (CERB). All you need is a pay stub (or proof of income), an address, and bank account information. It can be done online and can take just a few minutes.
In the U.S., the short-term loan industry is just as lucrative. In 2015 payday borrowers, often people with bad credit or few options, paid more than $60 billion in fees and interest. Things are even worse under President Donald Trump, who rolled back consumer protections and gutted the federal agency tasked with fighting predatory lending.
Cash Money, on the other hand, told VICE that it’s seeing a “significant decrease in new loan applications.” Melissa Soper, Cash Money’s senior vice president of public affairs, said that according to the Canadian Consumer Finance Association (CCFA), which represents the fast-cash lending industry, Ontario payday loan activity for April 5-11 declined 84 percent from the last week of February. VICE could not confirm this decline and the CCFA did not respond to VICE’s request for comment.
Soper said that Cash Money has modified payment for 10,000 customers across Canada who owe money depending on their circumstances, ranging from changing the due date to interest or forgiving fees.
Economist Ricardo Tranjan, who authored the CCPA research, said this may be a slow start to a large-scale personal finance crisis.
For example, Tranjan said renters are four times more likely to use payday loans than homeowners. Right now very few jurisdictions are offering breaks for renters but are giving homeowners mortgage deferral options. 
And while banks and credit card companies are slashing interest rates, most payday loan customers are people who don’t have access to cheaper loans like a credit card or line of credit, typically low-income earners and newcomers or people who have maxed out their lower-interest debt options.
“In Canada moderate- and high-income families have access to good and cheap financial products whereas lower-income households have to resort to bad and expensive financial products,” he said.
According to Borden, payday lenders are “like loan sharks” who can benefit from the coronavirus crisis to get more customers.
Struggling with mounting bills during the 2008 recession, she borrowed $10,000 from a payday lender. “Before I knew it I paid close to $24,000 and they said I still owed $7,000,” Borden said.
Because there are rules limiting a payday lenders’ ability to roll over a loan, people who can’t pay when it’s due often resort to taking out another such loan from a different company. And because lenders don’t require a credit check, you usually won’t be denied a short-term cash advance if you owe money to another payday lender. 
“Our return to work will be gradual, which implies that people’s incomes will only gradually increase, leaving less funds available to service debt,” he said. “By the end of summer or fall the courts will be open, collection agents will be calling, and the pressure will build such that bankruptcy and consumer proposal filings will likely spike upwards, perhaps significantly.” 
Tranjan said one easy policy fix would be for all provinces to follow Quebec’s lead and cap payday loan interest at 35 percent annually.
Any changes would come too late for Rori. She’s trying to figure out what she’s going to do when her CERB runs out because she doesn’t qualify for Employment Insurance. Because of her current debt, she says she doesn’t qualify for other loans so she’s considering signing up for some essential work, at a grocery store or in food service, even though she has a compromised immune system.
“I am scared financially, because I don’t know when my job will be safe even if things get back to normal,” she said. “I don’t have a security blanket and an emergency fund in case things fall apart.”