The number of people travelling outside their home cities jumped nearly 50 per cent at the start of the Labour Day weekend, compared with the first day of the Tomb Sweeping holiday on April 4, according to Reuters calculations on data from China’s internet giant Baidu Inc.
The increase in outbound travel during the five-day holiday, one of China’s peak tourism periods each year, would help lift the travel and hospitality sectors that have been hit hard by disruption from the coronavirus pandemic.

					Tourists visit the Mutianyu section of the Great Wall of China on the first day of the five-day Labour Day holiday following the coronavirus disease (COVID-19) outbreak, on the outskirts of Beijing, China May 1, 2020.				
‘Cancellations for rest of summer’: Summerland tourism operators take major financial hit due to COVID-19
‘Cancellations for rest of summer’: Summerland tourism operators take major financial hit due to COVID-19
Hundreds of sightseeing spots have also been reopened, including the Forbidden City in Beijing, as authorities sought to revive and repair local economies.
The country recorded more than 23 million domestic tourists on May 1, according to China’s culture and tourism ministry.
The Ministry of Transportation expects 23.36 million travellers a day during the period, up from 19.9 million per day during the April 4-6 Tomb Sweeping holiday.

					Visitors wearing face masks practise social distancing as they line up to enter the Forbidden City before its reopening on the first day of the five-day Labour Day holiday following the coronavirus disease (COVID-19) outbreak, in Beijing, China May 1, 2020.				
But that estimation would still be far below the 67.13 million travellers per day during the 2019 Labour Day holiday.
The expected drop is partly because China has capped visitors to tourist spots at 30 per cent of capacity to adhere to social distancing rules.
At the West Lake in the eastern city of Hangzhou, the most popular sightseeing spot during the holiday according to Baidu, 183,700 visitors were recorded on May 1, less than a third of the numbers last year.
Some tourists also stayed closer to home, and others avoided areas such as Heilongjiang province that are still battling local virus clusters.
Hubei’s tourism department said its 22 reopened tourist sites saw 109,664 visitors on May 1, down 87 per cent from a year ago, while tourism revenue plunged 95 per cent to 6.79 million yuan (US$961,729).
China reported one new coronavirus case for May 1, down from 12 a day earlier, and no new deaths, data from the country’s health authority showed on Saturday.
Coronavirus outbreak: Cabinet ministers questioned on Trump’s belief COVID-19 may be result of ‘accident’ at Chinese lab