Richard Yuan with PM Scott Morrison at a 2018 function, the plane that arrived in Sydney from Wuhan on April 8, top left, and the cargo of medical equipment the plane carried.
It was spruiked as a mission of mercy, airlifting urgent medical supplies from Wuhan to Australia as hospitals here prepared for the full onslaught of COVID-19.
The Suparna privately chartered plane – with its crew under strict Australian Border Force instructions not to leave the airport premises - left for its return flight to Wuhan in the early hours of the following morning.
The Australian government will not say how much the Chinese consortium was asking for the unsolicited 500 cubic metres of cargo, comprising one million face masks, protective gowns, goggles, gloves, shoe covers, antiseptic wipes and coronavirus testing kits, all purportedly “European certified”.
A spokesman for the Department of Health confirmed to 7NEWS.com.au it received “a number of approaches offering products at inflated prices” at a time when PPE supplies were in short supply.
It did not deny, however, that one of those unsolicited offers involved a shipment that arrived by plane from Wuhan in April.
The Sydney Airport Corporation has confirmed to 7NEWS there was only one flight that landed in Sydney in April from Wuhan.
The plane was carrying some 90 tonnes of critical medical supplies, including protective masks, gowns and respirators.
It was the one hailed as a mission of mercy by a Sydney-based Chinese entrepreneur who bears a multitude of office-bearing titles in Australia and is admired as a Chinese Communist Party stalwart in his home province of Hunan in South Central China.
When 7NEWS approached Yuan “Richard” Zuwen on Wednesday about the fate of the cargo that arrived on a privately chartered Suparna aircraft in Sydney on April 8, he declined to give details.
“Quite a number of local and Chinese business communities have been involved in the 8 April shipment, I am not in the position to comment at this stage,” he said in a statement.
Yuan Zuwen, also known as Richard Yuan, in a photo posted on the website of ABC World, an immigration, visa and property consulting company he founded in 2000. 
7NEWS has also been unsuccessful in ascertaining where all that baby formula ended up, with Yuan saying it was going to be “donated to the Hubei Youth Development Foundation which will distribute the goods to key hospitals, schools, children’s health centres, kindergartens and nursing homes”.
Baby formula supplies have been threatened in Australia in recent months, and scenes of long queues, panic buying and even verbal and physical abuse captured outside stores seeking to ration purchases of the products.
And scenes of long queues, panic buying and even verbal and physical abuse have been captured outside stores seeking to ration purchases of the products.
The shortage has been blamed in some quarters on Daigou traders – people living in Australia and turning a profit by buying up products in high demand and then selling them to wealthy consumers living in mainland China.
Less than a month before that plane landed, Yuan founded an organisation called the Australia China Goodwill Association.
On April 9, as chair of that association, he issued a media release hailing Suparna flight Y87447 as a mission of mercy and a victory in the China-Australia bilateral relationship in a time of crisis.
“Our community has been honoured by the opportunity to arrange this bilateral goodwill measure – coordinated to support people in need both in Australia and China.”
A spokesman for Prime Minister Scott Morrison has told 7NEWS Yuan was given no such diplomatic access.
Yuan with the then treasurer Scott Morrison at what Yuan describes on his website as a “private reception” in 2018.
But Yuan appears fond of spruiking his powerful connections, having posted online an extensive collection of photos featuring the Chinese businessman meeting Australian politicians online.
Yuan has also been snapped on occasion with Immigration Minister David Coleman, Trade Minister Simon Birmingham, former NSW Premier Bob Carr and even former prime minister John Howard.
Yuan wrote a letter urging the PM to be more proactive and flexible in responding to the pandemic and “keep in mind the friendly relations between Australia and China more comprehensively.”
The story captured with enthusiasm Yuan’s joyous response when lo and behold, the Australian PM wrote back assuring him the government was on to it.
The political snaps were not evidence of any friendship or collaboration with the PM or his cabinet ministers, a spokesman for Morrison told 7NEWS.
As for the PM taking Yuan’s advice, no direct correspondence had been entered into, the spokesman said.
Yuan was, however, sent a letter signed by Ben Morton, the Assistant Minister to the Prime Minister, on February 10, which stated:
“The Prime Minister appreciates your offer to assist in facilitating discussions to respond to the novel Coronavirus.
“The Australian Government is already working closely with Chinese authorities and our international partners to keep Australians safe and assist China in dealing with what is a difficult and complex health crisis.”
7NEWS does not suggest there is any illegality involved in the import or export involved in the flights.
7NEWS is also seeking clarification on whether the “local and Chinese business communities” Yuan says were behind the shipment are part of consortium of entrepreneurs belonging to a mysterious club.
With an annual individual membership of $2,500, it is open only to those who can prove they own more than $5 million in Australian assets, and prove their credentials as “influential high-net-worth-individuals” wielding significant business and political clout.
Fog of the future? Australian researchers claim revolutionary device ‘can kill coronavirus in minutes’