Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal had earlier said the government's earnings and economy have been badly affected due to the coronavirus-induced lockdown. 
"A 70% 'Special Corona Fee' has been imposed on the MRP (maximum retail price) of liquor bottles. The new rate will be applicable from Tuesday," said the source.

In a late night notification, the Finance Department of the Delhi government said, "70% of the maximum retail price (will be levied) on all categories of liquor sold through retail licensees for consumption..."

For instance, a liquor bottle with a maximum retail price of Rs 1,000 earlier will now cost Rs 1,700 in the city.

The decision comes on the first day of easing of certain restrictions under the third phase of the coronavirus lockdown. Delhi has allowed 150 state-run liquor shops outside the coronavirus containment zones.

The idea to impose such a cess was mooted at a Cabinet meeting chaired by Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Monday, said sources, adding that Excise Commissioner Ravi Dhawan has been directed to prepare a detailed report. The modalities are yet to be finalised, they added.

Neighbouring Haryana is also considering imposing a variable "COVID cess" on liquor to support the areas or institutions adversely hit by the pandemic, Deputy Chief Minister Dushyant Chautala had earlier said.

Kejriwal on Sunday had said the government's earnings and economy have been badly affected due to the lockdown. Citing revenue figures, he had said the Delhi government earned Rs 3,500 crore in April 2019, but only Rs 300 crore this April.

Kejriwal said it is unfortunate that people were not maintaining the mandatory six feet or two-metre distance from one another at some shops and requested everyone to not take any risk.

He added that if there is no compliance of social distancing norms outside a shop, the government will seal it.

First Anniversary Offer: Subscribe to Moneycontrol PRO’s annual plan for ₹1/- per day for the first year and claim exclusive benefits worth ₹20,000. Coupon code: PRO365
CNN name, logo and all associated elements ® and © 2020 Cable News Network LP, LLLP. A Time Warner Company. All rights reserved. CNN and the CNN logo are registered marks of Cable News Network, LP LLLP, displayed with permission. Use of the CNN name and/or logo on or as part of NEWS18.com does not derogate from the intellectual property rights of Cable News Network in respect of them. © Copyright Network18 Media and Investments Ltd 2020. All rights reserved.
Central Team Flags Disparities in Bengal's Covid-19 Data, Slams State Govt for Its 'Antagonistic View'