
				Then-Harvard University president Drew Gilpin Faust and Chinese president Xi Jinping / Getty Images			
Harvard University canceled a panel discussion on Hong Kong protests because the event coincided with the university president's meet-and-greet with Chinese president Xi Jinping, according to a former university scholar.
Teng Biao, a former fellow at Harvard Kennedy School's human rights center, attempted to host a panel discussion on Chinese human rights issues in 2015. A vice dean at Harvard Law School, however, ordered him in February of that year to cancel the event because it would have been "embarrassing" for the university, according to Teng.
"I did ask that an event Mr. Teng planned to hold to coincide with a meeting between this university's President and the Chinese President be postponed until after her short Beijing visit because I thought that timing might have an impact on university activity there (regarding academic, scientific, humanitarian and rights matters)," Alford said. "As the person who first invited Mr. Teng to spend a year here, I felt some responsibility for whatever impact his undertakings might have for others at the university."
As China grew wealthier in the 21st century, its state-backed institutions targeted higher education, seeking access to cutting-edge research and high-quality education. Western universities, in turn, looked at China as a lucrative new revenue stream, partnering with Chinese universities and cashing grant checks from controversial Chinese firms such as telecommunications giant Huawei. The regime's ties with these elite institutions, however, have gradually eroded the principles of free inquiry, academic freedom, and free speech. Teng's case is emblematic of the erosion, which has only accelerated since 2015.
"Academic freedom should be an important principle of Harvard or any universities," Teng said. "I was shocked when I saw this obvious self-censorship by Harvard. The Chinese government's increasing influence on American universities is really alarming."
Teng, now a professor at Hunter College, said that these sorts of ties have allowed China to exercise an undue influence on Western institutions, compromising their commitment to academic freedom as scholars censor themselves out of deference to Beijing.
Teng said this was not the only time Harvard canceled one of his events. In June 2015, he tried to host an event commemorating the 26th anniversary of the Tiananmen Square massacre at Harvard. The university told him one day before the event, however, that the room was unavailable—ostensibly due to audio issues.
"They said there was an audio problem in the classroom," Teng said. "I'm very skeptical and I think Harvard Kennedy School got pressure from Chinese student organizations or the Chinese consulate."
Thor Halvorssen, president of the Human Rights Foundation, slammed Harvard's censorship of Teng, arguing that it exemplifies the "gutless venality, greed, and censorship that pervades so much of academic administration."
"It is so inappropriate for a U.S. university to restrict Teng Biao's academic activities out of deference to the CCP, and even more outrageous given that Teng was himself a political prisoner who suffered under the hands of this Chinese regime," he said. "This is the sort of situation that perfectly captures the degradation of fundamental principles in the academy. The priority of a murderous regime comes above the need to support human rights."