President Jair Bolsonaro once again personally attended a protest in Brasilia and criticized the Supreme Court and Congress. This time, former minister Sergio Moro was also the target of the protest.
In a statement broadcast live on his social network, Bolsonaro said: "I am sure of one thing, we have the people on our side, we have the Armed Forces on the side of the people, by law, by order, by democracy, and by freedom. And most importantly, we have God with us ".
At the end, the president said: "I ask God that we have no problems this week, we have reached the limit, there is no more conversation, from now on, we will demand and enforce the Constitution. It will be enforced at any price, and it has a double hand".

      Jair Bolsonaro once again personally attended a protest in Brasilia and criticized the Supreme Court and Congress. .\ (Foto: Wagner Pires/Futura Press/Folhapress) 
          
Bolsonaro left the Alvorada Palace on Sunday (3) and went to the Planalto ramp to wave to the demonstrators, crowds, who shouted "Fora Maia," among other things. A Brazilian flag was extended on the ramp.
The president again attacked governors for social isolation measures to combat the coronavirus pandemic and criticized what he called "interference" in his government, in an allusion to the recent Supreme Court measures.
Bolsonaro said he wanted "a government without interference that could hinder Brazil's future." "Patience is over," he said. "It is a spontaneous demonstration, for democracy," he said in a live broadcast on his social network, from the Planalto ramp.
Pro-government protesters Jair Bolsonaro attacked, threatened and expelled journalists covering the act. The Mayor, Rodrigo Maia, and the Vice President Hamilton Mourão spoke out against the aggressions.
https://www1.folha.uol.com.br/internacional/en/brazil/2020/05/bolsonaro-supports-protest-against-supreme-court-and-congress.shtml
Share this "Brazil: Brazil's Supreme Court Opens Investigation into Education Minister for Racism Crime"
Share this "Brazil: 'I am in Charge', Says Bolsonaro when Announcing an Appeal against The Supreme Court Suspension of Federal Police Appointment"
'I am in Charge', Says Bolsonaro when Announcing an Appeal against The Supreme Court Suspension of Federal Police Appointment