Australian intelligence agencies have questioned evidence trumpeted by United States officials supposedly linking the coronavirus to a Wuhan laboratory as concerns within the government grow that the push will derail efforts to eliminate dangerous wildlife wet markets.
A 15-page "dossier" has been widely quoted by local and international media about China's alleged cover-up of the virus. Australian intelligence officials have since identified a research report which  was based entirely on open source material. The officials said it was likely the reports were the same.
United States secretary of State Mike Pompeo claimed on Sunday there is "enormous evidence" the coronavirus outbreak originated in the Chinese laboratory but did not provide any facts to back up his assertion. Mr Pompeo also said he agreed that the virus was not man-made.
confirmed Australia has still not been provided with any evidence that strongly suggests the Wuhan Institute of Virology was the source of the outbreak
Australian intelligence officials have no evidence suggesting the Wuhan Institute of Virology is the likely source of the virus.
Prime Minister Scott Morrison said on Friday the Australian government did not have strong evidence linking the Wuhan lab to the virus.
Senior members of the Morrison government are concerned the promotion of the theory is hampering efforts by Australia to pursue an independent coronavirus inquiry and its push to permanently end the sale of exotic wildlife in Chinese wet markets.
In a series of comments last week, Mr Bannon, a former executive chairman of far-right website Breitbart and advisor to President Donald Trump, said China had to be held accountable for a "biological Chernobyl" and accused the Wuhan lab of premeditated murder.
Li Haidong, a professor at the Institute of International Relations of the China Foreign Affairs University, said media allegations could further exacerbate rising political tensions.
There was also widespread concern within the government about Victorian Liberal senator Sarah Henderson's comments in News Corp papers on Monday that called for all virus research by foreign scientists in Australian laboratories to stop until a safety and national security review was done.
Talking points distributed by the Prime Minister's office on Monday morning reminded Coalition MPs that the CSIRO undertakes due diligence before entering into research partnerships.
Senator Henderson was commenting on reports that the CSIRO's bio-containment facility in Geelong has been undertaking research jointly funded by the Australian and Chinese governments.
CSIRO released a statement confirming it had no current joint research with the Wuhan Institute of Virology and said it undertook all research in accordance with strict biosecurity and legislative requirements, which took security concerns into account.
"Scientific research cooperation and collaboration on zoonotic diseases with scientists from China and elsewhere is valuable, and important to help us better understand the nature of these diseases," he said.