As demand and manufacturing output dip during the novel coronavirus crisis in Turkey, analysts warn inflation may rise in the coming months.
An employee works at the assembly line of the MAN Bus Production Center in Ankara, Turkey, July 29, 2015. Photo by REUTERS/Umit Bektas.
turkish lira, lira, inflation, covid-19, coronavirus, turkish government, turkish economy, manufacturing
The mixed developments will continue to pose challenges for the Turkish economy as the nation grapples with the impacts of the pandemic, though economic analysts warn current trends may reverse in the coming months due to weak demand and continued strain on the labor market.
        
Atilla Yesilada, a political analyst at Global Source Partners, said he expected the effects of lowered production capacity as result of the pandemic to begin materializing this summer.


“The disinflationary forces right now will completely reverse by autumn and we’re going to get inflationary forces,” Yesilada told Al-Monitor. “Of course, they’re not going to be massive, but nonetheless, any forecast that predicts a decline in inflation in autumn and winter ought to be taken with some amount of skepticism.”


While the Central Bank lowered its inflation forecast amid such trends, Selva Demiralp, a professor of economics at Koc University and director of the Koc University-TUSIAD Economic Research Forum, has repeatedly drawn attention to regulators’ limited resources in curtailing future economic shocks, particularly as diminished bank reserves continue to be used to bolster the Turkish lira, which recently passed the psychological marker of seven per dollar.


In addition, shopping malls, barber shops and some stores will reopen May 11, while universities will resume courses June 15. The easing comes after four consecutive weekend lockdowns on major urban areas, among other measures, which have reportedly decreased the number of new infections, with Turkish health officials recording a steady decrease in virus-linked deaths over the last week.
Still, Yesilada said a further devaluation of Turkey’s currency could have extensive repercussions on Turkey’s economy, as companies lacking sufficient cash flows would become more reliant on foreign-denominated loans, which in turn would become more costly to pay off if the lira were to continue its decline.
“This week is extremely critical,” Yesilada told Al-Monitor. “As I watch my screens, there’s this bloody battle between foreign traders and Turkish traders over the exchange rate. I don’t know who’s going to win, but if Turkey loses, then the exchange rate will fly off the handle.”

    Netflix yanks 'Designated Survivor' episode in Turkey over portrayal of fictional president
    