It may be some time before tourists are traveling the globe again. But what if you could travel through designated, approved parts of it?
"One thing I'm not willing to do is jeopardize the position that New Zealand has got itself into by moving too soon to open our borders -- even to Australia."
It's not clear when this "bubble" could become a reality -- currently both countries still have domestic travel restrictions in place, and all international arrivals are subject to a 14-day quarantine.
Travel industry experts say August is when the corridor is likely to be rolled out, possibly in time for the ski season in New Zealand and the school holidays in September. 
Although the two countries are separated by about 2,000 km (1,243 miles) of sea, they have one of the closest bilateral relationships in the world. Australian passport holders can travel and work in New Zealand indefinitely without a visa, and vice versa.
In both countries, tourism industries have taken a massive hit from the coronavirus outbreak -- so it's no surprise that industry representatives are welcoming the prospect of a travel bubble. 
"The message from the industry side is that the bubble is a goer," said Simon Westaway, the executive director of the Australian Tourism Industry Council, adding that it was the only way of getting international tourism into Australia in the near future.
"If we can add in the Australians, that would be enormously beneficial for the survival of tourism businesses and thousands of jobs," said Chris Roberts, the chief executive of Tourism Industry Aotearoa, which represents the tourism industry in New Zealand. He added that the amount tourists spend in New Zealand had dropped by at least 2 billion New Zealand dollars ($1.22 billion) a month.
But Roberts isn't expecting the levels of Australian tourists that New Zealand had pre-Covid -- he thinks many would opt to just travel domestically. 
Roberts envisions a future where tourists may turn up to the airport, be tested for Covid-19 and only be allowed on the plane once they've got a negative result. Once they are at their destination, they may have their temperature checked. Travelers may need to supply more information than usual so they can be easily traced, if necessary. 
Both Roberts and Westaway believe the bubble would only work if the current 14-day quarantine period for anyone entering the country is removed.
Once the trans-Tasman bubble is tried and tested, New Zealand could look to include other territories in its bubble -- perhaps Taiwan and Hong Kong, Roberts said. 
"I think it will be on a country by country basis," he said. "A general opening of borders could be a very long time away."
For the first time, drones have been allowed to fly inside Kakadu National Park in Australia. The resulting video is stunning. 
Ardern has urged caution on including the Pacific, saying: "Our Pacific neighbors in large part have not been afflicted by Covid-19, and the last thing we would want is to risk that."
But broadening Australia and New Zealand's travel bubble to at least some Pacific Islands would help boost the islands' tourism industry, said Stephen Howes, the director of the Development Policy Center at Australian National University in Canberra. 
"For a lot of people, it's very tough," he said of the effect on tourism in the Pacific. "Some have gone back to their village ... people are just struggling to get by."
"Obviously no country would be forced to do this," he said, adding that the travel corridor could always be stopped if it didn't work. "It would be a complex undertaking ... but it's certainly worth trying."
And including the Pacific would also help Australia and New Zealand, allowing migrant workers to enter both countries. The inclusion could also have a huge soft power impact in the region, which is of strategic importance to New Zealand, Australia and China. 
"This is a real test," Howes said. "If Australia and New Zealand go ahead and just have a trans-Tasman partnership, they could really antagonize the Pacific. It would be like, 'well you don't really care.'"
Roberts agreed that the bubble would benefit the Pacific, saying that without tourism, their economies are in significant trouble. 
"In terms of economic aid to our Pacific neighbors, that would be the best thing we could do for them -- as long as we could do it safely."
A potential Australia and New Zealand travel bubble may end up being a model for the rest of the world, Roberts and Westaway say.
Like other countries around the world, New Zealand and Australia will need to be careful not to move too fast and create a second Covid-19 wave. 
Moving too fast could also jeopardize their image with international tourists, who view the countries as clean, trustworthy places.
"If (the detail) can be worked out between New Zealand and Australia, then they can be applied to other places as well," Roberts said.
"There's quite a lot of attention paid to this part of the world now because of the apparent success of New Zealand and Australia containing the virus outbreak. If we can also then come up with a way to resume travel between countries, I'm sure the rest of the world will be taking a very keen interest to see how that works."