We use cookies to improve our service for you. You can find more information in our data protection declaration.
Police in Copenhagen have foiled plans for an act of terror that had "a militant Islamic motive." The suspect, who had allegedly tried to obtain firearms and ammunition, was thought to be working alone, authorities said.
Police in Denmark prevented a terror attack that was said to have "a militant Islamic motive," authorities confirmed in a statement on Thursday. 
Danish police on Thursday arrested a man who is suspected of planning a terrorist attack, the chief of Copenhagen’s police force Jorgen Bergen Skov said in a joint press conference with the operative head of Denmark's Security and Intelligence Service (PET) Flemming Drejer. 
"He is suspected of attempting to obtain firearms and ammunition to carry out a terrorist operation somewhere," Bergen Skov said, declining to provide details about the location of the planned attack. 
"You must have no doubt that PET's efforts have led to the prevention of a terrorist attack," he said. 
Drejer said the man was planning "one of several attacks" and that police believe he was acting alone. The man had "a militant Islamic motive," Drejer added.
Both Dreyer and Bergen Skov said the incident was not related to a case in December where Danish authorities arrested around 20 people suspected of having ties to Islamic terrorism. 
Danish police have foiled several planned extremist attacks in recent years. In one instance, police prevented an attack linked to a newspaper that in 2005 had published 12 cartoons depicting the Prophet Muhammad.  
People who have lost loved ones in racist attacks say Germany and German society show too little sympathy for victims and their families. The annual European Remembrance Day of Victims of Terrorism isn't enough for them. (11.03.2020)
  
Danish security officials have accused Iranian intelligence of "planning an attack on Danish soil" against Iranian Arab dissidents. Tehran has linked recent terrorist attacks inside Iran to European-based separatists. (30.10.2018)
  
An explosion at the Danish Tax Agency was a "deliberate attack," police say. However, authorities are still trying to determine who exactly was behind it. 
Former fighters for the Islamic State are trying to return to their countries of origin. Germany is one country seeking ways to cancel passports. DW looks at how EU countries can strip citizens of their nationality. 
Mourners gathered in the southwestern city of Ahvaz on Monday for the funerals of the victims of Saturday's terrorist attack. Meanwhile, the United States has rejected Iran's accusations of US involvement. 