We use cookies to improve our service for you. You can find more information in our data protection declaration.
Germany's constitutional court has ruled that the European Central Bank's stimulus program partly contravenes German law, because neither the German government nor parliament signs off on the spending.
Tuesday's ruling by Germany's surpreme court was the result of years of debate over the role of the eurozone's central bank. It did not cover current ECB aid issued in response to the coronavirus crisis, with the ECB having launched a special Pandemic Emergency Purchase Program.
The judges in Karlsruhe raised concerns back in 2017 that one specific part of the bond-buying program, the Public Sector Purchase Program (PSPP), could engage in economic policy and direct government financing, both of which the ECB is prohibited from doing.
The program also knows as quantitative easing was reactivated in November of last year against the backdrop of trade conflicts, the specter of Brexit and other headwinds impacting the eurozone economy.
The court thus sided with several groups of plaintiffs including economist and former far-right AfD leader Bernd Lucke as well as Peter Gauweiler, a former senior member of Bavaria's conservative CSU party. They had argued that the central bank's bond buying program was not within its sole mandate of ensuring price stability.
It were some judges at the Federal Constitutional Court themselves who back in 2017 started the ball rolling by raising concerns that a specific part of the bond buying program, the Public Sector Purchase Program (PSPP), could directly engage in economic policy which the ECB is not allowed to do.
Uwe Burkert, an economist with LBBW Bank, said after Tuesday's ruling by Germany's top court that "the verdict is a very explosive thing."
"The Bundesbank [Germany's central bank] will — after a transitional period of three months — be barred from taking part in the ECB's PSPP program."
Commerzbank Chief Economist Jörg Krämer is certain, though, that the bond buying scheme will continue. "The ECB will have to prove now that the program is really proportionate so as to win approval by the German government and lawmakers — given the large group of experts at the ECB, that shouldn't be much of a problem."
Germany's Constitutional Court is once more dealing with the question of whether the European Central Bank's asset purchases constitute illegal state funding. A "Yes" from Germany's top judges could lead to chaos. (30.07.2019)
  
The EU has been criticized for its response to the COVID-19 crisis. In recent weeks, the bloc has been scrambling to come up with clear financial plans, but despite huge figures being mentioned, uncertainty remains. 
The European Central Bank unveiled a multi-billion euro plan to help economies struggling with the fallout of the coronavirus. But how will it help economies brought to a standstill by emergency measures? 
Germany's Constitutional Court is once more dealing with the question of whether the European Central Bank's asset purchases constitute illegal state funding. A "Yes" from Germany's top judges could lead to chaos. 