According to the ONS, people’s main concerns were personal wellbeing, their jobs and the impact of Covid-19 on their finances as normal working life was suspended for all but essential workers.
Those who thought they would not be able to save any money over the following 12 months reported anxiety 33% higher than those who thought they would be able to.
Direct cash grants for self-employed people, worth 80% of average profits, up to £2,500 a month. There are similar wage subsidies for employees.
Government to back £330bn of loans to support businesses through a Bank of England scheme for big firms. There are loans of up to £5m with no interest for six months for smaller companies.
Taxes levied on commercial premises will be abolished this year for all retailers, leisure outlets and hospitality sector firms.
Britain’s smallest 700,000 businesses eligible for cash grants of £10,000. Small retailers, leisure and hospitality firms can get bigger grants of £25,000.
Government to increase value of universal credit and tax credits by £1,000 a year, as well as widening eligibility for these benefits.
Statutory sick pay to be made available from day one, rather than day four, of absence from work, although ministers have been criticised for not increasing the level of sick pay above £94.25 a week. Small firms can claim for state refunds on sick pay bills.
The ONS tracks wellbeing through a survey of around 1,500 people that asks people how anxious and happy they are on a scale of one to 10. Between 20 March and 30 March, the proportion of people registering high levels of anxiety (between six and 10 on the scale) stood at 49.6% of the adult population, or more than 25 million people , up from 21% at the end of 2019.
Of those worried about the impact of coronavirus on their lives, the survey suggested about 5.3 million people were most concerned about the effect on their finances; 8.5 million were most concerned about their wellbeing, including boredom, loneliness and stress; and 6.2 million were most concerned about their jobs.
Among other concerns cited were the effect of the lockdown on education, relationships and caring responsibilities.
With stress levels rising, the number of people reporting a low happiness score of between zero and four stood at 20.7% in late March, compared with 8.4% in the final quarter of last year.
The average anxiety rating was 2.97 in the fourth quarter of 2019, increased to 5.18 in late March, and fell to 4.2 by mid-April.
The ONS said those who had already been affected financially in late March were also reporting lower wellbeing; people whose household finances had been hit because of Covid-19 reported 16% higher anxiety on average.
Lucy Tinkler, the head of the ONS’s quality of life team, said: “All measures of personal wellbeing, which include anxiety and happiness, are at their worst levels since we began collecting data in 2011.
“This was particularly the case for those who have already been financially affected, as well as those renting and the self-employed. The most recent data showed a slight improvement in anxiety compared to previous weeks, but remained much higher than before the pandemic.”
Keir Starmer criticises government’s draft guidance as ‘pretty vague’ and calls for enforcement of common set of standards