"It's the balance of something that's a very difficult choice," Dr. Anthony Fauci, the country's leading infectious disease expert, told CNN Monday night. "How many deaths and how much suffering are you willing to accept to get back to what you want to be some form of normality, sooner rather than later?"
At least 42 states will be partially reopened through May 10, including California -- the first state to implement a sweeping stay-at-home order -- where some stores will be allowed to reopen this week.
Miami Beach closes park just five days after reopening as nearly 8,000 break face mask and distance rules 
Forgetting about social distancing measures too quickly can result in a rebound, Fauci says. And that's highly likely with a virus that he says can spread "like wildfire."
"It has a phenomenal capability and efficiency in spreading from person to person," Fauci said Monday. "This virus has enormous capabilities of spreading like wildfire. We know that."
California was one of the states where crowds gathered over the weekend -- thousands of protesters descended on the state's Capitol and an Orange County beach to protest social distancing orders from the governor. 
On Monday, the governor announced retail shops in the state -- including clothing stores, florists and book shops -- can begin to reopen on Friday, after health officials said the state was meeting important metrics including sufficient test and tracing capacity.
Los Angeles Mayor Eric Garcetti said he didn't think his city would reopen this week, saying Monday that despite the governor's announcement, different parts of the state may see different timelines for reopening. 
In Michigan, Gov. Gretchen Whitmer said the lockdown will continue "until at least May 15," warning that reopening the state too soon could lead to a second shutdown.
Chris Christie pushes to reopen country despite dire Covid-19 projections: 'There are going to be deaths'
And in Mississippi, Gov. Tate Reeves took a more aggressive approach, releasing new guidelines that go into effect this week. 
Saying he knows the virus doesn't do well in the sun or heat, he added, "to be outdoors is about the safest place you can be."
The governor's plan also allows dining service in restaurants --  as long as the institutions follow guidelines provided by the state, including a mandatory deep cleaning.
"I don't want to wait if there are steps that we believe we can safely take now to ease the burden on Mississippians fighting this virus," he said. 
Three family members charged in shooting death of security guard who told a customer to put on a face mask
 issued to require face masks in stores and restaurants was amended a day later after store employees were