Rami Makhlouf on Sunday released a second Facebook video –two days after an earlier shock appearance – which lifted the lid on his split with Assad and laid bare the workings of the ruling family’s normally inscrutable inner sanctum.
The unravelling and its unusual public nature comes as Assad has been subjected to rare criticism from one of his two patrons, Russia, which has grown impatient as the long, costly war grinds slowly on and is looking for returns on its five-year investment.
Makhlouf had controlled nearly every pillar of the economy, including construction, car imports, retail, tourism and telecommunications, where the mobile network Syriatel has been its main cash cow – and the target of Assad’s interest.
“They are asking me to distance myself from my companies and do exactly as they order me to do, while I’m blindfolded and not able to respond,” said Makhlouf. “The pressures have started with the senior figures in these companies being arrested already.
 “The pressure began in unacceptable ways and the security forces, in an inhumane way, are arresting our employees.” Addressing the Syrian leader, he added: “President (Assad), the security forces have started attacking people’s freedoms. These are your loyal supporters. The situation is dangerous and by God, if we continue, the situation of the country will be very difficult.”
Makhlouf claimed he had been asked to pay up to £180m in taxes, which he said he was willing to do over time. However, he said he would not step down from Syriatel, which is the economic artery of Syria’s sanctions-hit government and one of its biggest assets.
Makhlouf’s fall from grace, and the public animosity between him and Assad, has stunned Damascus and the Syrian diaspora. Family manoeuvrings are traditionally conducted in secret in the brutal police state, leaving even establishment figures guessing about what transpired.
Makhlouf built his fortune largely from commissions paid to him by large networks of businesspeople. He said Assad had accused him of minimising profits in Syriatel in order to avoid taxes.
One Syrian businessman described Makhlouf’s fortune as “staggering”. “Syria’s GDP was $60bn in 2010,” he said. “He controls easily half of that. Multiply that by 20 years and add in the family silver from [the former Syrian president] Hafez al-Assad’s days and you have tremendous wealth, much of it that would not pass any audit.”
Moscow meanwhile appears to have decided to look for ways to cash in on its efforts to save the Assad regime, which – along with Iran’s involvement – have proven decisive. Assad has been left ruler of a much-diminished country and struggles to assert his sovereignty over that of his two patrons, both of whom remain committed to Syria while maintaining divergent visions about the type of country that should emerge from the ruins.
In mid-April, a Kremlin-linked thinktank published a critique of Assad by Aleksandr Aksenenok, a senior diplomat and former ambassador to Syria, which said: “Judging by everything we see, Damascus is not particularly interested in displaying a far-sighted and flexible approach continuing to look to a military solution with the support of its allies and unconditional financial and economic aid like during the old days of the Soviet-US confrontation in the Middle East.”
The pointed criticism comes despite a Russian view that no alternative to Assad has emerged during the conflict, and amid increasing concerns about Iran’s role in the country.
“They want Assad because they think they can control him,” a Turkish diplomat said of Russia’s position. “They don’t want Iran because they can’t. Both sides are giving them headaches.”
The blast in a market in Afrin came as people went shopping in preparartion of breaking the Ramadan fast, says US and Syrian Observatory
Toxic fumes and repiratory disease among hazards facing people reliant on informal processing plants for work and fuel