Coronavirus outbreak: Trudeau not drawing ‘firm conclusions’ on whether virus originated in Wuhan laboratory

				WATCH: Trudeau not drawing ‘firm conclusions’ on whether virus originated in Wuhan laboratory			
Trudeau said Canada will continue to work with intelligence and allies around the world to “find answers to the many questions people are asking.”
Asked by reporters if an investigation had been ordered into the claims, Trudeau said Canada is working with partners and “indeed independently” on “many security issues that are important to Canadians at this point.”
China has insisted the laboratory is not to blame, with a spokesperson for its foreign ministry calling the claims “unfounded and purely fabricated out of nothing.”
But, earlier this month, the U.S. announced it would be investigating the possibility that the virus made its way into the human population due to a leak at the Wuhan Institute of Virology (WIV).
In a previous interview with Global News, Jeffrey Joy, an assistant professor at the University of British Columbia’s faculty of medicine whose research focuses on virus evolution, said while the idea that this coronavirus escaped the WIV is “conceivable,” it is also “highly implausible in this case.”
He said the genome shows the virus’ origin and spread occurred in nature, which is a common event for several coronaviruses, including ones that don’t become deadly pandemics.
What’s more, Kristian Anderson, who is studying the novel coronavirus at Scripps Research in La Jolla, California told the Associated Press that the odds of the virus having been accidentally released from the lab in Wuhan are “a million to one,” far less likely than an infection in nature.
Coronavirus outbreak: White House says Trump comments about virus from Wuhan lab ‘consistent’ with intelligence assessments
Coronavirus outbreak: White House says Trump comments about virus from Wuhan lab ‘consistent’ with intelligence assessments
Dr. Jason Kindrachuk, an assistant professor and Canada Research Chair in emerging viruses at the University of Manitoba, also said there is currently no scientific evidence to support the theory that this novel coronavirus escaped from a lab.
“However, this week the chairman of the joint chiefs of staff echoed that the weight of evidence continued to suggest natural rather than accidental emergence for SARS-CoV-2.”
Most recently, on Thursday, Trump told reporters he had been shown evidence that gave him a high degree of confidence, that the virus came from the WIV.
But, he didn’t offer any specifics, saying he was “not allowed” to disclose that type of information.
Coronavirus outbreak: Cabinet ministers questioned on Trump’s belief COVID-19 may be result of ‘accident’ at Chinese lab