Coronavirus updates: Boris Johnson reveals death 'contingency plans'; 18 new cases nationally today; SA to open playgrounds, skate parks; Aussie pub workers in crisis as 94 per cent lose jobs; Newmarch House records new death
revealed lucrative bonuses offered to senior management in cruise industry for avoiding government interference
An influential Chinese academic has maintained that Australia's call for independent coronavirus inquiry is a 'hostile' and 'divisive' act
Boris Johnson has described the 'Death of Stalin'-style contingency plan he put into place during treatment
One-third of 500 random coronavirus tests in Afghanistan's capital came back positive, raising fears of widespread undetected infections.
Afghanistan has performed only limited testing so far – close to 12,000 – with more than 2700 confirmed infections, in a nation of 36.6 million.
The country's health care system, devastated by four decades of war, is woefully unprepared for a major outbreak. It has only 400 ventilators.
Russia has recorded its highest daily rise in confirmed coronavirus cases with 10,633 new infections, bringing the total to 134,687, with more than half of cases and deaths in Moscow.
The nationwide death toll rose to 1280 on Sunday after 58 people died in the last 24 hours, Russia's coronavirus crisis response centre said on its website.
Doctors work inside the intensive care unit for people infected with the new coronavirus, at a hospital in Moscow, on May 2, 2020. (Image: Associated Press)
Russia has said its lower mortality rate was because the Russian outbreak occurred later than in many other countries which gave the authorities more time to prepare.
Russia has been in partial lockdown since the end of March to curb the spread of the virus. People in Moscow can leave home to visit the nearest food shop or chemist, walk their dog or throw out rubbish but need special passes for other activities.
President Vladimir Putin has ordered the nationwide lockdown to remain in place until May 11 inclusive.
An international media rights group says the coronavirus pandemic is being used by governments around the world to increase restrictions on press freedoms.
The International Press Institute issued a report Sunday to coincide with World Press Freedom Day 2020, which concludes that in both democratic and autocratic states the "public health crisis has allowed governments to exercise control over the media on the pretext of preventing the spread of disinformation."
The Vienna-based organisation said it has documented 162 press freedom violations related to coronavirus coverage over the past two and a half months. Almost a third of the violations have involved the arrest, detention or charging of journalists.
When Tony Londero and his wife Kerry were waiting to board what was to become the infamous last cruise of the Ruby Princess in March, they could never have predicted the dire turn their journey would take.
Eight days into the trip, Tony came down with flu-like symptoms. When he took himself to the onboard medical centre, he had no idea his cruising holiday would end with him being taken off the ship in an ambulance, charged more than $8000 and days later diagnosed with COVID-19.
The coronavirus crisis has cut Australia off from the world, and population growth is about to slow dramatically.
Despite doing it tough like many other businesses during the coronavirus lockdown, La Tienda Colombian restaurant is embracing the notion that sharing is caring.
So for the past six weeks, the eatery has been dishing up free meals on Monday and Tuesday nights for those in need.
"It's reaching out to the community, it's helping them who have lost their jobs," owner John Gomez told 9News. Each meal is valued around $15, with people able to email their orders in before picking them up.
The family-owned restaurant is still serving takeaway meals as well, and employs Colombian students, who unlike others who have lost their jobs, can't access government assistance.
La Tienda has also developed its own food delivery platform to curb costs associated with other popular delivery services.
Guests quarantined in Adelaide's Pullman Hotel after returning to Australia on a mercy flight from India are set to finally go home, and they couldn't be happier.
But while there's no place like home, the guests were full of praise for the people who looked after them in quarantine.
The state government provided gift hampers for children stuck in the Pullman and the Playford hotels.
The hotels ran fitness classes several times a day through in-room TVs – a good balance to the hearty provisions provided.
Pullman Hotel general manager Llewellyn Wyeth said they took their cue from Premier Steven Marshall, who said it was South Australia's turn to help out.
The Queensland Teachers Union is pushing back against calls to send students back to school en masse.
The federal government wants more kids in class and more parents working, to get the economy pumping again.
But the union sent out a letter to its members, declaring, "We will not accept all students back to school for economic reasons alone".
That's despite new guidelines removing the need for students to maintain social distancing in class. Teachers still have to adhere to the guidelines, however.
Just 48 children in Queensland – out of a total 1.2 million – have contracted coronavirus, representing less than five per cent of all infections.
Teachers have started discussions with the government about a staggered return for prep, Year One, Year 11 and Year 12 students, to be completed by week six of this term.
UK Prime Minister Boris Johnson has revealed just how serious his battle with coronavirus became, saying "contingency plans" had been made in case things went badly wrong.
He also said doctors had made plans for a "death of Stalin scenario", perhaps a reference as to how to they might communicate news of his illness and potential death without causing a national panic.