 10,102 new coronavirus infections Tuesday, bringing the country’s official number of cases to 155,370.
Russia is now the seventh most-affected country in terms of infections, having surpassed China, Turkey and Iran last week.
Prime Minister Mikhail Mishustin last week confirmed that he has the coronavirus, making him the highest-ranking official in Russia to contract the virus. 
Russia is emerging as a new hotspot for the coronavirus as many countries in western Europe begin steps to ease lockdown measures after their rates of new infections and deaths dropped.
Despite the sharp rise in cases, Russia's official fatality rate has remained low in comparison to countries including Italy, Spain and the United States.
Officials credit quick moves to close the country's borders, as well as widespread testing and tracking of infections, but critics have cast doubts on the numbers.
Authorities have extended a non-working quarantine period until May 11 but have also indicated they could then gradually lift confinement measures which vary from region to region.
Moscow has emerged as the epicentre of the pandemic in Russia, with around half the total coronavirus cases. Mayor Sergei Sobyanin has warned that "the threat is apparently on the rise" and urged residents to respect confinement rules and anti-virus measures over the May holidays.
Russia marks several public holidays in early May, including for Victory Day on May 9 to celebrate the defeat of Nazi Germany.
President Vladimir Putin had planned a major celebration for this year's 75th anniversary, with world leaders in attendance as thousands of troops and tanks paraded through Red Square.
The coronavirus forced him to cancel the parade and the day will now be marked with military aircraft flying over major cities.
The city’s 12 million residents have been ordered to stay inside as the coronavirus sweeps the city. Its thousands of homeless have nowhere to go.
Rights campaigners have warned of potentially "devastating consequences" of the coronavirus in Russia's prison system.
Mayor Sergei Sobyanin had ruled out using QR codes to police people’s movements during the monthlong lockdown.

							The Moscow Times’ team of journalists has been first with the big stories on the coronavirus crisis in Russia since day one. Our exclusives and on-the-ground reporting are being read and shared by many high-profile journalists.
                        

							We wouldn’t be able to produce this crucial journalism without the support of our loyal readers. Please consider making a donation to The Moscow Times to help us continue covering this historic time in the world’s largest country.
						