
                            Revealed: First look at Expo 2020 Dubai’s entry portals
                            

                            In pictures: Autonomous jetman takes flight in Dubai in first Expo 2020 mission
                            

                            Photos: Two-day Sindh Livestock Expo 2020 in Hyderabad
                            

                            Kia will bring its Sonet compact SUV to the Middle East
                            
Paris: The postponement of Expo 2020 Dubai to 1 October 2021 – 31 March 2022 is set to be approved by the Bureau International des Expositions (BIE), with the change of dates having already surpassed the required two-thirds threshold, it was announced on Monday.
On the proposal of the Executive Committee, the General Assembly of the BIE began voting remotely on 24 April and will continue until 29 May. BIE regulations stipulate that a two-thirds majority of Member States holding the right to vote is required for the dates of an Expo to be changed.
A statement from Dubai Media Office, read, "Expo 2020 Dubai is gearing up to help shape a post-pandemic world and create a better future for all after a two-thirds majority of Bureau International des Expositions (BIE) Member States voted in favour of postponing the next World Expo by one year.
"The global mega event will now run from 1 October 2021 to 31 March 2022, a delay that allows all participants to safely navigate the impact of COVID-19. It also allows the World Expo to focus on a collective desire for new thinking to identify solutions to some of the greatest challenges of our time."
His Highness Sheikh Ahmed bin Saeed Al Maktoum, Chairman of Dubai Airports, President of the Dubai Civil Aviation Authority, Chairman and CEO of Emirates Group, and Chairman of the Expo 2020 Dubai Higher Committee, said: “We welcome the decision of BIE Member States to support the delay of Expo 2020 Dubai by one year. We are thankful to Member States for their continued commitment to contributing to a World Expo in Dubai that will play a pivotal role in shaping our post-pandemic world at a time when it will be most needed.
“We have sought to build over the last 50 years bridges, connections, and partnerships around the world because we believe in genuine collaboration to safeguard the future of all. This swift and overwhelming vote reflects the strength of our international partnerships and truly reflects the positive role the UAE and Dubai play with all countries around the world.
“This affirmation by the international community of Dubai’s offering and its ability to deliver, further strengthens our commitment to matching ambition with achievement to hosting an event that will capture the world’s imagination, when the time is right.”
With a BIE General Assembly impossible to stage due to COVID-19 restrictions, Member States voted remotely on the BIE Executive Committee’s recommendation for a delay as proposed by the UAE Government at the beginning of April and recommended by the BIE Executive Committee on April 21. While the vote remains open until 29 May, the two-thirds threshold was surpassed within a week of voting opening on 24 April.
Dimitri S. Kerkentzes, Secretary General of the BIE, said: “I applaud the swift response by BIE Member States. Their support for the postponement of Expo 2020 Dubai – which will be formally approved on 29 May – is a renewed sign of solidarity and demonstrates the shared will to work together in 'creating the future'.”
“In their support for the one-year postponement of Expo 2020 Dubai, Member States of the BIE are giving the world the opportunity to reconvene in 2021, when together, we can address the challenges facing humanity and celebrate the unity and solidarity that strengthen us. With its theme ‘Connecting Minds, Creating the Future’, Expo 2020 Dubai will offer the world a unique platform to share the lessons, solutions and ideas for a better tomorrow.”
Expo 2020 Dubai retains its name and remains committed to hosting an exceptional event that will celebrate humanity’s resilience, creativity, culture and innovation – including major technological advances in the fields of medicine and science.
The first World Expo to be held in the Middle East, Africa and South Asia (MEASA) region, and largest ever event to take place in the Arab world, Expo 2020 will welcome 192 countries, plus businesses, multilateral organisations and educational establishments.

                        Latest local and global Coronavirus news directly to your inbox
                    

                        Latest local and global Coronavirus news directly to your inbox
                    
Delivered bright and early weekday mornings, this email provides a quick overview of top stories and need-to-know news
We’ll send you latest news updates through the day. You can manage them any time by clicking on the notification icon.

                Password should have minimum 7 characters with at least one letter and number
            