In a video released late on Sunday – hours after Maduro’s government claimed it had foiled a United States-backed sea “invasion” near Venezuela’s main international airport – Jordan Goudreau claimed the battle was not over.
The former US special forces medic, who served in Iraq and Afghanistan, offered no evidence for those claims and it was unclear where the video had been recorded. There were no reports of fighting in the capital, Caracas.
But earlier on Sunday Venezuela’s leaders claimed they had frustrated what they called a US-backed assault near the port city of La Guaira, 20 miles north of Caracas, killing eight alleged assailants.
Venezuela’s interior minister, Néstor Reverol, claimed a platoon of “terrorist mercenaries” had tried to make landfall using speedboats but been repelled by security forces.
Reverol said “a meticulous land, sea and air search” was under way to capture any remaining invaders, vowing: “We will remain in permanent state of alert and resistance.”
Speaking to the Associated Press on Monday, Goudreau claimed 52 of those fighters – including two US veterans – had infiltrated Venezuelan territory and were “in the first stage of a mission to recruit members of the security forces to join their cause”.
“I don’t care about politics,” he said. “I care about my men on the ground right now who are in the most dangerous phase of the operation.”
But those efforts fizzled and Maduro remains in power, albeit facing massive challenges as a result of Venezuela’s continued social and economic meltdown and now, the Covid-19 crisis, which doctors fear could bring the country’s crippled health system to its knees.
Guaidó denied any involvement in the alleged invasion on Monday although Goudreau provided a Miami-based journalist with an eight-page services contract supposedly signed by Guaidó and two political advisers in October for $213m.
In a lengthy report on Goudreau’s travails last week, the Associated Press claimed he had founded a private security company called Silvercorp USA in 2018 and last year decided to capitalize on Donald Trump’s obsession with overthrowing Maduro.
Goudreau reportedly boasted of high-level contacts in the Trump administration but the news agency said it had found no evidence of US support for his actions.