
                                        47 new health workers infected with COVID-19, bringing total to 1,819, as recoveries rise to 350. Death toll remains at 34
                                    

Intel shared among US allies indicates virus outbreak more likely came from market, not a Chinese lab

"We think it's highly unlikely it was an accident," a Western diplomatic official with knowledge of the intelligence said. "It is highly likely it was naturally occurring and that the human infection was from natural human and animal interaction." The countries in the Five Eyes intelligence-sharing coalition are coalescing around this assessment, the official said, and a second official, from a Five Eyes country, concurred with it. The US has yet to make a formal assessment public.
A third source, also from a Five Eyes nation, told CNN that the level of certainty being expressed by Pompeo and Trump is way out in front of where the current Five Eyes assessment is. This source acknowledged that there is still a possibility that the virus originated from a laboratory, but cautioned there is nothing to make that a legitimate theory yet.
The source added that "clearly the market is where it exploded from," but how the virus got to the market remains unclear.
But without greater cooperation and transparency from the Chinese it's impossible to say with total certainty, the first official added.
The Five Eyes alliance is made up of the United States, United Kingdom, Canada, Australia and New Zealand -- and the countries share a broad range of intelligence in one of the world's tightest multilateral arrangements.
The third source said it is also possible the US is not sharing all of its intelligence. While the overwhelming majority is shared among the Five Eyes members, there are pockets of information that each country keeps to itself.
The assessment follows repeated claims by Trump and Pompeo that there is evidence the virus originated at the Wuhan Institute of Virology.
"I can tell you that there is a significant amount of evidence that this came from that laboratory in Wuhan," Pompeo told ABC News on Sunday.
The US intelligence community issued a statement on Thursday saying it is still working to "determine whether the outbreak began through contact with infected animals or if it was the result of an accident at a laboratory in Wuhan." The statement said that the Covid-19 virus was not manmade or genetically modified.
The Office of the Director of National Intelligence and the State Department did not respond to CNN's requests for comment.
Intel shared among US allies indicates virus outbreak more likely came from market, not a Chinese lab
© 2015 Nine Media Corp. CNN name, logo and all associated elements ™ and © 2015 Cable News Network. Turner Broadcasting System, Inc. All rights reserved. CNN and the CNN logo are registered marks of Cable News Network, Inc., displayed with permission.