European Commission President Ursula von der Leyen speaks during a news conference after a video conference with EU leaders in EU summit format at the European Council building in Brussels, Thursday, April 23, 2020. European Union leaders agreed…
FILE - EUROPEAN COMMISSION PRESIDENT URSULA VON DER LEYEN SPEAKS DURING A NEWS CONFERENCE AFTER A VIDEO CONFERENCE WITH EU LEADERS IN EU SUMMIT FORMAT AT THE EUROPEAN COUNCIL BUILDING IN BRUSSELS, BELGIUM, APRIL 23, 2020.  - European leaders are establishing an international medical organization to mount a united battle against the coronavirus.
“Our aim is simple,” the group said, about its goal of raising $8 billion Monday in an online pledging campaign to finance finding a COVID-19 vaccine and treatment.
“We will all put our own pledges on the table and we are glad to be joined by partners from the world over,” they said. “We support the WHO and we are delighted to join forces with experienced organizations such as the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation and the Wellcome Trust.”
U.S. President Donald Trump has suspended payments to the World Health Organization, saying that WHO did not act swiftly enough in alerting the world about the deadly virus.
The European leaders said, “Every single euro or dollar that we raise together will be channeled primarily through recognized global health organizations such as CEPI, Gavi, the Vaccines Alliance, the Global Fund and Unitaid into developing and deploying as quickly as possible, for as many as possible the diagnostics, treatments and vaccines that will help the world overcome the pandemic.”
“If we can develop a vaccine that is produced by the world, for the whole world, this will be a unique global public good of the 21st century,” the alliance said. “Together with our partners, we commit to making it available, accessible and affordable to all.”

      France pays up to 84% of lost income for workers put on short hours or no hours; in Germany, it's 60% - the catch is, the business can't fire the workers
    

      There has been an increase in the number of children with inflammatory problems requiring intensive care
    