As contact tracing plans firm up, the tech giants are sharing new details for their framework—and a potential app interface.
Public health officials still have to make the actual apps. But Apple and Google have given them a reference interface—and strict guidelines on how much data they can collect.
On Monday, Apple and Google released a few new details about the Bluetooth system they're building into both Android and iOS that will let health care authorities track potential encounters with Covid-19. The companies have now made clear that only government agencies—preferably at the national level, Google and Apple say, though they note they're willing to work with state and regional authorities—will be granted permission to the feature's application programming interface. If those government-run apps want access to Apple and Google's Bluetooth-based system, they won't be allowed to collect location data, and must ask for consent before collecting information on a user's proximity to others. They'll need permission to upload any information from the phones of Covid-19 positive people as well.
Now Google and Apple are showing how some parts of that process might look. The two companies warn, however, that they're only releasing sample images as references, since health care agencies will build the final apps, not Apple and Google.
Here, for instance, is how Google and Apple suggest the apps ask for user consent to transmit and record Bluetooth codes when the app is first installed:
In another series of screenshots, the companies show how the apps will likely work when a user is diagnosed as Covid-19 positive. As Apple and Google had suggested earlier, they'll require users to enter a unique code provided by health care providers or a Covid-19 testing lab before allowing them to declare themselves as infected, since otherwise trolls or mistaken self-diagnoses could flood the system with false positives:
Finally, Google and Apple have shown an example of what a notification of potential contact with an infected Covid-19-positive person could look like:
Those sample messages confirm that Google and Apple will make it possible to determine the exact day a contact event occurred. Some developers of contact-tracing apps have argued that offering too much information about the time when a contact event happened will make it too easy to identify Covid-19-positive people, and that apps should only tell the user they've been exposed at some indeterminate time in the last two weeks. But others have pointed out that users should know when a contact event occurred so that they can consider factors like whether they were wearing a face mask or other personal protective equipment at the time, whether they were behind a protective barrier, or some other situation that might creative a false positive.
By choosing to tell users the day—but not the time—that they were potentially exposed, Google and Apple appear to have reached a compromise. But the system still leaves open the possibility that some people could have their Covid-19-positive status exposed to strangers without their consent. Someone who is sheltering in place might leave their home only once daily to get their mail, for instance, and come into contact with just a few people—or even just one person. If they're later alerted they were exposed to Covid-19 that day, they might be able to remember which of their neighbors they saw and learn who has likely been diagnosed with Covid-19.
Plus: What it means to “flatten the curve,” and everything else you need to know about the coronavirus.
As we look forward during the Covid-19 outbreak, some governors are already talking about opening some businesses back up. Is it too early? Rushing to open could lead to a deadly second wave of infections and could be a massive error. Dr. Seema Yasmin outlines some critical mistakes that we should try to avoid while fighting the Covid-19 pandemic.
WIRED is where tomorrow is realized. It is the essential source of information and ideas that make sense of a world in constant transformation. The WIRED conversation illuminates how technology is changing every aspect of our lives—from culture to business, science to design. The breakthroughs and innovations that we uncover lead to new ways of thinking, new connections, and new industries.