When removalist John Siaki witnessed a man hitting his wife he says it shocked him so much, he decided he needed to do something about it.
"Growing up in a Pacific Island community we are to respect all our ladies, regardless of how young or how old they are — there is a thing called respect in our culture," he said.
He said his Ipswich-based removal company, Siaki and Sons, previously averaged about four domestic violence moving jobs a week.
But over the past two months, he said a strong rise in demand had pushed that figure to 10 moves a week.
Mr Siaki said he believed the financial stress and isolation caused by the COVID-19 pandemic complicated the issue. 
Central Queensland University senior academic and domestic violence expert Brian Sullivan said he was concerned COVID-19 had given perpetrators another "tactic" to control their partners.
"We know in the sector that women who are living with controlling abusive men are already in lockdown and their lives are already micro-regulated," Dr Sullivan said. 
"When there are major disasters and catastrophes that can intensify home life — which is already very dangerous for some women — it might be because of financial issues that arise, or it might be because of unemployment."
"There is going to be a six-month period here where we are on a learning curve here, and there will be risks, but hopefully with what we do and how we respond we can keep damage down and keep harm down."
A recent survey by the Centre for Women indicated an increase in incidents of violence across Queensland. 
Centre CEO Stacey Ross said the survey, sent to frontline domestic violence workers, found a 20 per cent increase in family violence incidents related to COVID-19 financial stress.
"The data also shows a near 40 per cent increase in the levels of violence and severity," Ms Ross said.
"We are currently planning on strategies internally around how we will be able to meet the demand once the restrictions are further relaxed and our doors reopen." 
Last month, the Federal Government injected $150 million into domestic violence services, after announcing internet search engines had shown the highest rise in searches for domestic violence help in five years.
Breaking down the latest news and research to understand how the world is living through an epidemic, this is the ABC's Coronacast podcast.
"The perpetrator might be tracking where they are going, what they are doing, so if somebody is stuck in a home and they are not able to get to a phone safely they are not able to reach out."
In Ipswich, the not-for-profit group City Hope Care has seen increasing demand for food hampers distributed to families impacted by domestic violence.
Manager Glenda Coxeter said care packs containing information, sanitary items and essentials were given to frontline workers who came into contact with people fleeing domestic violence and these had seen a fivefold increase in demand. 
"They always tell you the full story — you don't ask for it, but they cry their hearts out," he said.
"You can hear from the tone in their voice that they are really serious and they need help — we have to take steps toward getting that person out.
"Some of the objects we take the client doesn't want because there are probably some bad memories attached to them."
Three charged in killing of US security guard over request to wear face mask to protect against coronavirus
This service may include material from Agence France-Presse (AFP), APTN, Reuters, AAP, CNN and the BBC World Service which is copyright and cannot be reproduced.