The police, which on Monday initiated a probe against the Instagram chat group “Boys Locker Room”, have asked the photo sharing app to share the details of all participants in the group where photos of underage girls were being shared and objectified.
Anish Roy, Deputy Commissioner of Police (DCP), Cyber Crime, said, “We have asked Instagram to share the details of the members and admin of the said group, including their names, IP addresses etc.” Leaked screenshots of the private Instagram chat group kicked up a storm over culture in India after numerous boys were allegedly seen sharing photos of underage girls, objectifying them, and planning ‘gang rapes’.
The incident came to light after a girl from south Delhi shared a screenshot on social media, exposing the group and scores of similar groups.
She wrote, “A group of South Delhi guys aged 17-18 types have this IG group named ‘Boy’s locker room’ where objectify and morph pictures of girls their age. Two boys from my school are a part of it.” The girl also shared the screenshot of the list of participants of the group and that of their chats where they could be seen sharing pictures of girls and passing comments over them.
The Delhi Commission for Women too swung into action and issued a notice to the Delhi Police and Instagram over the issue. “I saw a screenshot of the “Boys Locker Room” Instagram group. This is a clear example of a gruesome criminal and rapist mindset,” Delhi Commission for Women chief Swati Maliwal said.

        #BoysLockerRoom: Delhi schoolboy nabbed for shocking insta group chat that spoke of girl's rape
    
The Tribune, now published from Chandigarh, started publication on February 2, 1881, in Lahore (now in Pakistan). It was started by Sardar Dyal Singh Majithia, a public-spirited philanthropist, and is run by a trust comprising five eminent persons as trustees.
The Tribune, the largest selling English daily in North India, publishes news and views without any bias or prejudice of any kind. Restraint and moderation, rather than agitational language and partisanship, are the hallmarks of the paper. It is an independent newspaper in the real sense of the term.