 At its peak, health authorities saw new daily case numbers in the 60s, 70s, and 80s – hitting 89, the highest daily total, twice. 
 The past fortnight had seen numbers drop largely day-on-day to just smatterings in the single digits, before today hitting zero.
On Thursday, director-general of health Dr Ashley Bloomfield explained that at some point, almost all of the country's cases were imported. While the ministry's capacity to contact trace had increased, there were still some unknowns.
 Infectious disease physician Dr Ayesha Verrall said the milestone is something to be "optimistic" about, but also a sign there's still work to be done.
 These are all new cases which are not imported from overseas, and therefore are transmitted among the community. 
 Even if we have zero locally acquired cases, the likelihood is we will continue to see new cases imported from overseas, she said.
 "When you get to several days of zero locally acquired cases, that's pretty cool. I would be pretty excited about that," she said. 
 But if New Zealand is to be certified as having eliminated Covid-19, this might mean activities that weren't possible before are now possible again, she said
 It is important to still be "going hard" on testing and contact tracing, and for border controls to remain in place. 
Dr Ayesha Verrall says she'll be "excited" when we hit several days in a row with no new locally-acquired cases.
 New Zealand would still have a problem with underdetection of disease, but far less so than other countries around the world, she said. 
 This is because of widespread testing, and relatively low burden on the healthcare system – meaning "we can be out there looking for the needle in the haystack". 
 To work towards elimination, it's critical that people with any symptoms are tested early, giving authorities the power to more quickly catch up with people, she said.
 "The longer we go with no detected cases, the more reassuring it is that that's a true observation," Verrall said. 
During the country's first weekend at Alert Level 3 police received almost 700 reports of parties being held and took action against 112 people.
 Bloomfield said the level 3 lockdown rules need to remain in place for a time despite the zero cases milestone.
 Psychologist Dougal Sutherland said having zero cases will be a test for New Zealanders in "keeping the faith" and keeping to the rules.
 While the country will have days where there are no new cases, or no reported deaths, it's important to remember "it's not over yet", he said. 
 There is a "danger of complacency" that comes with not having any new cases, as people may try and escape the boredom of being at home, thinking they are OK to do so, he said.
 While there were high numbers of confirmed or probable cases, there was an incentive to abide by the rules the Government has set – avoiding getting unwell. 
 But without that, the will to stay home and continue physical distancing may not be as strong, Sutherland said. 
 Sutherland said trying to form a mental picture of what things might look like during this period, where we are still at alert level 3 but perhaps seeing fewer or no cases could be helpful and easier to stick to. 
 "We can do amazing things – we can win Rugby World Cups and the America's Cup, and we can beat Covid-19," he said.