Two crossed lines that form an 'X'. It indicates a way to close an interaction, or dismiss a notification.
Two crossed lines that form an 'X'. It indicates a way to close an interaction, or dismiss a notification.
A global coalition is demanding intervention from Brazil to protect Amazon tribes 'on the eve of a genocide' from coronavirus
Two crossed lines that form an 'X'. It indicates a way to close an interaction, or dismiss a notification.

                    Members of the Kisejde tribe wait to perform a ceremonial dance for their leader Cacique Raoni Metuktire of the Kayapo tribe, in Piaracu village, near Sao Jose do Xingu, Mato Grosso state, Brazil, on January 17, 2020.
                  
"Five centuries ago, these ethnic groups were decimated by diseases brought by European colonizers," the signatories said. "Now, with this new scourge spreading rapidly across Brazil … [they] may disappear completely since they have no means of combating COVID-19."
The letter demands immediate intervention from the Brazilian government, led by President Jair Bolsonaro.
According to a 2015 study, there is a direct correlation between forest destruction and infectious diseases. For every 1% of forest that is cleared, malaria cases increase up to 23%.
Brazil's nearly one million indigenous peoples face a looming "genocide" unless the Brazilian government immediately intervenes, according to a global coalition of scholars, artists, and actors.
According to Brazilian photojournalist Sebastião Salgado, who organized the petition and has spent nearly 40 years reporting on the indigenous Amazon, the government must remove illegal loggers, gold miners, and other industrial interests from the indigenous land to stem the threat of infections.
"Indigenous communities have never been so under attack," Salgado also told the outlet. "The government has no respect at all for the indigenous territories."

          Brazilian photographer Sebastiao Salgado addresses guests at the Bene Taschen gallery at his exhibition Gold in Cologne, Germany, on February 6, 2020.
        
"As a result, there is nothing to protect indigenous peoples from the risk of genocide caused by an infection introduced by outsiders who enter their land illegally," said the petition, which the Guardian reported was also signed by supermodels Gisele Bündchen and Naomi Campbell, author Mario Vargas Llosa, artist Ai Weiwei, architect Norman Foster, and actor Meryl Streep.
"When you endorse or encourage an act that you know will eliminate a population or part of a population, this is the definition of genocide," Salgado told the outlet. "[It will be] genocide because we know this is going to happen, we are facilitating ... the entry of coronavirus ... [and therefore] permission is being given for the death of these indigenous people."