Lawyer argues search engine’s publication of a 2004 article about his arrest on conspiracy to murder charges – later dropped – defamed him
George Defteros had clients including the gangsters Alphonse Gangitano and Mario Condello, and the gangland identity Mick Gatto.
The supreme court justice Melinda Richards on Thursday ruled that the article, first published in the Age in 2004, had implied that Defteros crossed a line from professional lawyer for, to confidant and friend of, criminal elements.
Defteros was charged alongside Condello with the conspiracy to murder and incitement to murder the killer Carl Williams, his father George and another man.
“In my view, the ordinary reasonable reader would have read between the lines and drawn the derogatory implication that Mr Defteros had crossed the already blurred line between being a professional lawyer to Mr Condello and other criminals, and being their confidant and friend,” Richards found.
Google was notified of the defamatory article in February 2016, but did not remove it until December that year. It was accessed 150 times between those months.
Defteros, who successfully built back his practice in 2007, said the article was “totally untrue and had blackened his name forever”.
But Richards found any damage done to Defteros’s reputation was tempered by the fact he had known about the article since at least 2007 and had not taken action to have it removed until 2016.
He had already sued the article’s author, John Silvester, and colleague Andrew Rule, over a chapter in their Leadbelly book based on the article and received $20,000 including $10,000 in legal costs.
Richards said Defteros himself had acknowledged a friendship with another underworld client, Graham “The Munster” Kinniburgh.
Defteros said in retrospect he was perhaps “a little bit generous” in calling Kinniburgh a friend, but said he did not deny it.
“I am not really persuaded that Mr Defteros had a settled reputation as a lawyer who did not associate or become friends with his criminal clients,” Richards said.