
                            Law of physics not universal, new research by Polish scientists finds
                        
Research by Polish scientists has revealed that billions of lightyears away the laws of physics are different from the ones on Earth.
The laws of physics describe or predict natural phenomena, such as what happens when someone drops an object out the window. Whether the window is in Poland or Australia, we know that the object will fall to the ground.
But new research by an international team of astrophysicists, including ones from Poland, indicates that the laws of physics are not the same everywhere. The findings come from the analysis of a signal from a quasar – an extremely luminous active galactic nucleus – from 13 billion years ago.
The team presented its findings in an article entitled ‘Four direct measurements of the fine-structure constant 13 billion years ago’ published in the scientific journal ‘Science Advances’ on April 24, which was co-written by scientists from the University of Szczecin and the Maritime University in Szczecin along with other research institutions in Europe, Australia and the United States.
“In our research, we think about whether the laws of physics here and now are the same as somewhere else long ago. And it turns out that they are not,” said Professor Mariusz P. Dąbrowski from the University of Szczecin, one of the authors of the article.
The scientists studied the quasar J1120+0641, which was formed a billion years after the Big Bang and is one of the most luminous quasars known. They used spectra obtained using the X-SHOOTER spectrograph on the European Southern Observatory’s Very Large Telescope (VLT), which is located in Chile.
“We found that a certain physical constant – so-called fine-structure constant (alpha) – may have been smaller in that period than it is now,” explained Dąbrowski, adding that the constant determines how electric charges attract.
More generally, the research confirms that changes in the laws of physics are not uniform throughout the universe, which has implications for scientists’ understanding of symmetry in the cosmos.
“If some points are at the same distance from us – for example, 13 billion light years away – but we look at one in the northern direction and the other in the western direction, it could turn out that the value of the fine-structure constant will be different there. And this means that the change in this constant in the universe is heterogeneous,” said Dąbrowski.


                Depicting the absurdity of life under communism, the film by director Stansiław Bareja premiered on 4th May 1981 and remains a part of popular culture up to today.
            


                        During WW II, the Germans kidnapped up to 200,000 ‘racially suitable’ Polish children for adoption by senior Nazis. In a harrowing, exclusive interview, TFN speaks to the son of one of the ‘Lebensborn’. What makes his story unusual though, is that with no real family of her own in Poland, Dariusz Dziekan’s mother quickly got back in contact with her German adopted mother after the war and Dziekan grew up knowing this woman simply as Grandma.
                    

                        From legal texts to muffins: the story behind one of Warsaw leading cooking schools for kids.

                        03/04
                                                    - 30/06
                        

                        Virtual Auschwitz Museum attracts 50,000 visitors in March
                    

                        25/04
                                                    - 31/12
                        

                        Kraków gallery opens online show of Beksiński paintings
                    

                        31/05
                                                    - 07/06
                        

                        29/07
                                                    - 15/11
                        

                        Epic Polish painting to be exhibited at National Gallery in London
                    

                        11/09
                                                    - 13/09
                        

                        Kielce University of Technology to host European Rover Challenge 2020
                    

                        Twinkle, twinkle little star: Polish satellites on the scene when a nova is born
                    

                        Bronze Age DNA in south Poland reveals direct genetic connection to today’s inhabitants
                    

                        Eco firm launches new initiative to prevent food waste with home fermentation kit
                    

                    This site uses "cookies". By staying on it, you agree to the use of cookies.
                