China is reportedly silencing coronavirus survivors who want answers on what went wrong with the country's early coronavirus response
China is reportedly silencing coronavirus survivors who want answers on what went wrong with the country's early coronavirus response
But lawyers have been warned not to file any lawsuits against the government, and grieving families have been interrogated and threatened by police, according to the report. 
The international community has been ramping up pressure on China for an independent investigation into the origins of the virus, as well as the country's response to the outbreak early on.
According to The Times, seven residents of Wuhan who had weathered the coronavirus outbreak or had family members who died from the virus were planning to sue the government in order to get some answers on what missteps may have led to the coronavirus pandemic. They say they want "fair compensation for their losses and harsher punishment for officials," according to the report. 
But instead of getting answers, they are being harassed and threatened, according to The Times, leading many to drop their bids. Lawyers have been warned not to file any lawsuits against the government, and families connecting with others also grieving lost relatives have also been interrogated by police, according to the report. 
Another Wuhan resident, Zhang Hai, told The Times that he is certain that his father was infected with coronavirus at a local hospital before he died in February. He said had he known about the risks of the virus's transmission, he would not have sent his father to the hospital.
Another man named Tan Jun, a civil servant from Hubei, filed a complaining accusing the provincial government of "concealing and covering up" the reality of the virus spread, causing people to "ignore the virus's danger," according to The Times. He acknowledged that he lodged a complaint with a Wuhan court but declined to be interviewed by the paper on the progress of his filing.
But many, including President Donald Trump, have called questioned China over its response to the virus and the truthfulness of its public statements. 
Petrol and diesel prices are rising as states hike tax to cover coronavirus cost⁠— the steepest hike is in Delhi
Fauci yet again dismisses conspiracy theory that the coronavirus was made in a Wuhan lab after Pompeo touted 'enormous evidence' of a cover up
Both Silver Lake and Mukesh Ambani hope that Reliance Jio will replicate Alibaba's magic⁠ — and this time Zuckerberg will get a chunk
Cognizant's ransomware attack is making peers like TCS and Infosys nervous — and they are beefing up security
Tired of sanitizing groceries? This Bengaluru startup built a ‘CoronaOven’ that can disinfect everything in less than 10 minutes
3 billion people — up to half the current global population — could be living in unbearable heat in 50 years
China is reportedly silencing coronavirus survivors who want answers on what went wrong with the country's early coronavirus response
3 billion people — up to half the current global population — could be living in unbearable heat in 50 years