The head of the EU’s agency for disease control has warned that the UK is one of five European countries failing to reduce active coronavirus infections, despite Boris Johnson’s claims of success.
Andrea Ammon, the director of the European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control (ECDC), suggested on Monday that the UK had yet to progress as far as the majority of European countries in tackling the disease.
But she told MEPs that the UK, along with Poland, Romania and Sweden, stood out as showing “no substantial changes in the last 14 days”.
“All the others, we really see this substantial decrease,” Ammon said of the cumulative incidence rate, which provides a measure of the prevalence of active cases in the population. She did not offer any explanation of the differences.
The agency reported that as of Monday there had been 1.2 million confirmed cases of infection, with 136,347 deaths within the territory it monitors.
The UK has recorded 186,599 confirmed cases and 28,466 fatalities, a death count second only to Italy, according to the ECDC’s latest data. Only the US has suffered more deaths.
In the last week there has been a decrease of around 13% in the the number of people with Covid-19 in UK hospitals. There has also been a decrease in the number of deaths.
The government has warned of the difficulties in making international comparisons, with the Cabinet Office minister, Michael Gove, insisting that while the government “will have made mistakes” the evidence will need to be assessed in the future.
But Ammon’s suggestion that the UK is yet to show the sustained improvement seen elsewhere in Europe offers some grounds for caution as Downing Street seeks to champion its efforts to reduce the rate of infection.
It has been suggested in Whitehall that a better insight into the relative success of governments will be found in the increase of excess deaths during the pandemic, rather than just those officially recorded as being related to Covid-19.
Ammon, a former head of department for infectious disease epidemiology at the Robert Koch Institute in Berlin, said the lockdowns brought in by governments across Europe as a whole had reduced transmissions by 45% compared with 8 April.
She warned, however, against any complacency and suggested that her agency had little confidence that the reporting of deaths and infections was complete.
A government spokesman said: “The UK’s approach throughout this pandemic has been guided by the latest scientific evidence.
“We have seen a marked decline in both daily confirmed cases and deaths in recent weeks and our published data clearly shows this.
“Other countries may be at different stages of the outbreak and there is variety in how they record and report deaths, so comparisons can be unhelpful, inaccurate and misleading”.
Keir Starmer criticises government’s draft guidance as ‘pretty vague’ and calls for enforcement of common set of standards