Beijing’s office in Hong Kong has slammed shoppers’ support for pro-democracy businesses as “violating” free market principles.
“Opposition lawmakers ignored the rules of the free market and made an utmost effort in hyping up the so-called ‘yellow economic circle’,” the statement read. 
“[They] manufacture a rift in society and unscrupulously disturb and destroy innocent shops. It is a kind of scorched-earth politics with politics kidnapping the economy,” the spokesperson added. 
The liaison office’s remarks came after citizens responded to online calls to shop and dine at businesses that supported the anti-extradition bill movement which erupted last June. Organisers aimed at creating a “Hongkongers’ 5.1 Golden Week,” in response to the absence of mainland shoppers who usually arrive during the break. Tourism, however, has come to a halt amid coronavirus travel restrictions.
City-wide protests failed to emerge on Labour Day last Friday, but riot police cleared Sha Tin’s New Town Plaza of protesters chanting slogans. Meanwhile, a 15-year-old boy was arrested over suspected arson in Prince Edward, where four people threw petrol bombs and rods at a police vehicle as it drove past the intersection of Nathan Road and Boundary Street.
Hong Kong pro-democracy activist Joshua Wong wrote on Twitter that it was ironic that the Communist Party of China criticised Hongkongers as breaching the principles of the free market. He said citizens had the freedom to use their own money to support or denounce shops, adding that it was “precisely the fulfilment of the free market.” 
Meanwhile, former chief executive Leung Chun-ying urged citizens to report on suspected violations of the “yellow” shops, such as breaching the Buildings Ordinance and Fire Services Ordinance. Leung said he opposed any form of violence, but blowing the whistle could be a legal means to “renovate” the pro-democracy shops, referring to the term “renovation” commonly used among protesters that meant thrashing anti-protest stores. 
依法裝修黃店美心、星巴克和大批商舖被暴徒「裝修」，蘋果日報和黃店沒有譴責，如今黃店竟然自稱是良知店。要「裝修」黃店並不困難，但黃店雖然招搖過市，至今絲毫無損，誰有良心、誰真正愛香港，還不清楚嗎？我反對用暴力手段「裝修」黃店，但如…
Former chief executive Leung Chun-ying urged citizens to approach government departments or pro-establishment lawmakers to report on suspected violations of “yellow” shops. 
After 25 years in the top spot, Hong Kong was rated as the world’s second freest economy in the Heritage Foundation’s 2020 Index of Economic Freedom in March.
“Maybe the ordinary people will think why they should drink Australian wine or eat Australian beef. Why couldn’t we do it differently?,” Cheng asked in an interview with Australian Financial Review.
“It is important that we just have an objective, independent assessment of how this originated and learn the lessons from how that occurred,” Morrison told reporters in Canberra last Wednesday. 
Coronavirus: Ex-health chief says masks no longer needed, but authorities urge Hongkongers to stay vigilant
Coronavirus: Ex-health chief says masks no longer needed, but authorities urge Hongkongers to stay vigilant