The number of coronavirus cases in the US has risen to 11,57,687 while the death toll stands at 67,674, according to latest data from Johns Hopkins University.
In a move to increase the current testing capacity for COVID-19 in India, orders have been placed for close to 6.3 million (63 lakh) RT-PCR testing kits.
Along with claiming more than 10,000 lives all over the world and infecting over 2,50,000 people, the coronavirus pandemic has also brought the entire world to a standstill. What started off as an outbreak in a town in China called Wuhan, the virus has now dug its roots deep in at least 166 countries around the globe, including India, United States of America, Asia, European nations, and the UAE.
As a precautionary measure against the contagious virus, people began practicing social distancing, self-isolation and home-quarantine, which has brought forth a rather scary picture of the world we live in. 
One of the seven wonders of the world and a leading tourist destination, Taj Mahal has been shut by the Government of India for the first time in four decades. As the number of cases in India crosses 200, strict measures are being taken by the Centre to curtail the spread of the virus as effectively as possible. The restaurants and vendors outside Taj Mahal have also been hit financially due to negligible footfall in the region.
The Eiffel Tower in Paris which is usually bustling with lakhs of tourists thronging the place on a daily basis, now does not have even a single admirer. It is usually one of the busiest places in the French capital. In a bid to limit the spread of COVID-19, France announced a complete lockdown for 15 days on March 17. Over 10,000 people have tested positive in France with at least 1,295 succumbing to the virus. Photo: AFP
Mecca, which is considered to be the holiest land in Islam, now stands empty with no pilgrims in the vicinity due to the coronavirus pandemic. On Tuesday, Saudi Arabia announced that mosques would no longer receive worshippers for the customary five daily prayers or the weekly Friday congregation, aimed at limiting the spread of the coronavirus which has infected 274 people in the kingdom. Photo: AFP
India's famous Gateway of India, which has seen the city rise and fall and rise again from the ashes, the transition of Bombay to Mumbai and even the horrific terrorist attacks of 26/11 now stands all alone alongside the Arabian Sea. The ever-bustling place now has no visitors as India has announced a complete nationwide lockdown till April 14. Photo by Ramesh Sable/TIL
The world's tallest structure Burj Khalifa, which is situated in Dubai, sees hundreds of visitors on a daily basis. But now, due to people staying inside their homes and doing their bit to stop the spread of coronavirus, the staggering building has no one to look on. Tourism in Dubai has also been affected because of major airports across the world shutting down operations due to the pandemic. Photo: Reuters, AFP
The mystical London Eye, an observation wheel on the bank of the River Thames, attracts scores of people everyday. But the tourist spot is now left abandoned as the UK has reported a total of 22,141 positive cases. More than 1,000 people have succumbed to the virus in the country. Even the Prime Minister of UK Boris Johnson and well as Prince Charles had tested positive for COVID-19. While the Prince is on his path to recovery, Johnson has quarantined himself at his residence and is carrying out his work from there itself. Photo: AP
Most of the people who visit the Colosseum in Rome often complain of not getting a single proper picture with the structure in the background because of the crowd bustling around there. But now, the scene in front of Colosseum is completely in contrast to what it was before as Italy was put under total lockdown after becoming the epicentre for the coronavirus pandemic. The country has reported the highest number of deaths in the world (11,591) with almost 1,000 people dying in a single say recently. Photo: AFP
The United States of America has reported 14,366 positive cases of coronavirus with 217 deaths and a reflection of this can be seen around the world-famous Statue of Liberty. As the virus infects more people in the USA, the Statue of Liberty was closed down for tourists on March 16 until further notice. Reuters photos
Disneyland, which is probably on the bucket list of every individual, now stands completely silent after being closed due to the coronavirus scare. The once busy theme park echoing with the laughter of children and adults alike is now eerily quiet and has been abandoned even by its loyal visitors. Photo: AP
As Italy becomes the worst-hit country in the world due to the coronavirus, the Grand Canal in Venice, Italy can be seen empty waiting for things to turn normal in the city once again. Over 40,000 people are infected in Italy and over 3,000 people have died forcing the country to go into a complete lockdown. Italy's numbers now exceed the total number of dead in China.  Photo: AFP
The world-famous Opera House of Syndey has now been deserted by its fans, courtesy -- the coronavirus pandemic. It is not only the city's most iconic landmark but also one of the most favourite places to visit for architecture lovers. However, the premises are now empty because its admirers are all locked up inside their houses in a bid to save the world from the contagious novel coronavirus. Photo: AFP, Reuters
Lockdown 3.0 Maharashtra: Here's a complete list of what's allowed and not allowed in Mumbai, Pune and Green, Orange and Red Zones
Stranded migrant workers, tourists, students can finally head home across state borders as Home Ministry allows travel amid lockdown