
                              Coronavirus: President Jair Bolsonaro dismissive as overwhelmed Brazilians dig mass graves
                      
Only small groups of family members are allowed inside the cemetery where more than 13,000 graves are being dug.
Now it is Latin America's turn to face the pain of the COVID-19 storm that has spread west across the globe.
The pictures filmed for Sky News by cameraman Eduardo Duwe at the Vila Formosa cemetery, the largest in Latin America, are simply staggering.
More than 13,000 graves are being dug. From the air, the enormity of this digging operation is astonishing. Grave after grave stretches as far as the eye can see.
This is a public cemetery, mainly used by the poorest families. In Sao Paulo, the poorest areas are being hit the worst.
Medical workers across Brazil haven't given up hope, but there is no battle, no real war on the virus, and they are facing defeat.
In full hazmat gear, the grave diggers and burial teams struggle over the freshly dug earth, while grieving family members follow behind.
Sky News producer Marcia Reverdosa spent two days at the cemetery documenting what is happening there.
"It was a tense and deeply sad atmosphere, but also there was this rush. Everything was at a very fast pace, something you don't expect to see at a funeral site," she said.
"Arrival, document checking and then if there was space they would grant the family some minutes to mourn, otherwise the coffin was just taken by a van immediately to the grave.
"No time for a prayer or anything, no time for goodbyes, no chance to see your loved one for one last time.
"Families were standing at the site surrounded by open graves. It was devastating. When it was done, another family would then take their position on the next grave and the process would start again," Marcia explained.
Such is the stigma of the disease that many people in Latin America simply refuse to acknowledge that their loved ones died of COVID-19.
Even if the hospitals believe the victims did die of the virus, there is little testing taking place so the families simply don't acknowledge the official report.
The graves are separate but the dead are covered over en masse. To all intents and purposes, this is a mass grave.
"The last time I saw him was when he entered the ICU, and then he never came back. That was the last time I saw him. Just like that."
They have been digging graves here non-stop for the past two weeks. They are doing about 800 a day. The workers thought they would be done by now but they have been told to keep going.
He says his team of diggers try to be as careful as possible, always cleaning themselves and looking out for each other.
Not even half the population of Sao Paolo is respecting the lockdown, but the state has the highest infection rate in the country.
Mr da Silva says it feels like people only start to take the virus seriously when it happens to them.
"At the beginning of our shift I take a picture with my whole team and post it online saying 'stay at home', because this is not a joke," he told us.
"Someone very close to me died yesterday. She was from my neighbourhood and she passed away yesterday. She had already lost a relative, so you see, it is not a joke.
"When it is not close to you you can say 'oh this is just a story people tell, it is not real', but when it is really close to you, you see how serious it is."
Asked about the death rate surpassing China, he gave this terse response: "So what? I mourn [the deaths] but what do you want me to do? My name is Messias but I can't work miracles."
He can't work miracles for sure, but by denying the dangers of COVID-19 and actively sabotaging lockdown plans in some of the country's major cities, he has allowed the virus to spread like wildfire.
"In the past two weeks you can notice more and more people are out in the streets, and it gives a sense of normality which shouldn't exist yet," she told us.
"We are reaching our peak here with hospitals about to collapse and cemeteries working double time to keep up with the demand. It is frustrating."