Opposition Congress party offers to pay migrants' fare after government decision to make workers pay causes backlash.
Migrant workers stranded in the western state of Gujarat wait to board a train in Ahmedabad [Amit Dave/Reuters]
The Indian government has been criticised for charging stranded migrants, travelling by special trains to their home states, for the journey.
Millions of workers in the informal sector were rendered jobless after businesses across the country were closed following the implementation of a nationwide lockdown on March 25 in an attempt to contain the spread of the novel coronavirus.
The first batch of migrants left the southern city of Hyderabad on May 1 for the eastern state of Jharkhand after the government last week allowed special interstate trains and buses to transport those who wanted to return to their villages in other states.
Migrants were also asked to pay a surcharge of 50 rupees ($0.66) as buses run by the Karnataka government charged hefty ticket prices, according to reports in local media.
On Monday, India's main opposition party Congress announced it will pay the migrants' fare after Indians took to social media criticising the government's move, with hashtags #PMCaresFund and #Railways becoming top Twitter trends.
"Our workers and labourers are the ambassadors of our nation's growth," said Congress president Sonia Gandhi in a statement.
Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi has faced criticism for creating a new coronavirus relief fund, PM CARES, when about $500m was lying unspent in an older fund.
Many social media users asked why the government did not use the fund to help the poor and migrant workers.
Migrant workers have been forced to walk hundreds of kilometres, many of them without food, to reach their homes.
Senior leader and member of parliament from the governing Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) Subramanian Swamy demanded the government should pay for the fares.
Faced with mounting criticism, the office of Railway Minister Piyush Goyal said the government will pay 85 percent of the ticket prices and the remaining 15 percent will be borne by the state governments.
The government has also been criticised for using the air force to shower flower petals on front-line health workers instead of lending a helping hand to poor workers stuck in cities for at least a month now.
"The entire nation stands united in these challenging times," Defence Minister Rajnath Singh tweeted on Sunday.
In Indore, in the central state of Madhya Pradesh, 14 migrant workers and four others were found by police on Saturday crammed into a cement mixer, local media reported. The migrants had been trying to return home from the western Maharashtra state to the northern state of Uttar Pradesh - a 1,200-kilometre (745-mile) journey.
In an exodus, many migrants already managed to return to their villages, mostly on foot. But local media reported that some died on their long journeys. Many others have been stranded at crowded shelters in various cities.