The patent with this number was for a strand of DNA that binds to the H1N1 virus, not the virus itself.
This application number was for a strain of the Ebola virus but the application has now been abandoned. The virus was not created by those who filed the patent.
This is the application number for a patent for the Ebola virus made to the Canadian Intellectual Property Office. This patent has not been granted, and doesn’t mean the Ebola virus was created by someone.
There is a patent application number one digit away from this that mentions BSE, but is not a patent for BSE itself.
This is the name of a certain strain of Zika virus, which was first isolated in the 1940s in a lab funded by the Rockefeller Foundation. This strain was not patented.
The first number is the US patent number for the SARS virus. The patent application was made by the CDC, but after the outbreak in 2002. The second number is a patent for a SARS vaccine which has now expired.
This number is not a patent for the new Wuhan virus, Covid-19. It’s a patent for a weakened version of a virus in the same family as Covid-19, a family which includes the common cold and SARS.
Some of these patents are for potential cures or vaccines for the diseases listed. Some are for patents of the pathogens themselves. This does not mean whoever applied for the patent invented the viruses. Some of the patents have been abandoned or have lapsed.
Filing a patent is not the same as creating an effective cure for something, as none of the same testing needs to take place to file a patent. The patent has now expired.
According to the US Patent and Trademark Office, the status of the patent application is “abandoned”.
You’ve probably seen a surge in misleading and unsubstantiated medical advice since the Covid-19 outbreak. If followed, it can put lives at serious risk. We need your help to protect us all from false and harmful information.
We’ve seen people claiming to be health professionals, family members, and even the government – offering dangerous tips like drinking warm water or gargling to prevent infection. Neither of these will work.
The longer claims like these go unchecked, the more they are repeated and believed. It can put people’s health at serious risk, when our services are already under pressure.
Today, you have the opportunity to help save lives. Good information about Covid-19 could be the difference between someone taking the right precautions to protect themselves and their families, or not.
We provide free tools, information and advice so that anyone can check the claims we hear from politicians and the media.