

        West blocking Syrian refugees from returning places ‘a bomb’ to destroy neighbors’ economies & security – Lebanese president

    


        The US and its allies want to keep refugees from returning to Syria regardless of the economic and social damage the current situation does to hosting nations, the president of Lebanon has said in an interview.

    
“They want to place the refugees as a bomb in the countries neighboring Syria, even if it would blow up the society, the security, and the economy in nations like Lebanon,”
Lebanon has an estimated population of over six million. Of those, a million are registered refugees from Syria and some 500,000 others are people who fled Syria but have no proper paperwork, according to the UN. The refugees are one of several issues plaguing the nation, which is facing a troubled political period. Last year, mass street protests caused the fall of Prime Minister Saad Hariri’s government. In March, Lebanon defaulted on its national debt.
‘We did not get a cent’: Palestinian diplomat says US ‘lying’ about promised $5mn aid package to hospitals facing Covid-19
“don’t want to share responsibility for the refugees, even though the US and many European nations have great capabilities,”
“We believe Russia and Lebanon have a similar perception of the issue of the Syrian refugees. We hope this similarity will help change the international intention to keep the refugees in the countries that they fled to,”
The Russian UN mission said on Monday that the UN Security Council has discussed the situation in Lebanon. Russia supports efforts taken by Aoun and the government of Hassan Diab to resolve the refugee crisis in the country, the diplomats said in a tweet, adding that Lebanese people should sort out all of the issues without any foreign interference.
Russia supported the Syrian government in its war against jihadist groups, but the country is still far from becoming stable. Moscow has advocated helping Damascus to rebuild the parts of the country under its control so that more Syrian citizens can return home. Western nations consider the Syrian government illegitimate and refuse to lift sanctions from Syria while it remains in power, delaying reconstruction in the war-torn nation.

                Oscars favorite ‘1917’ is touted as a stirring masterpiece about horrors of war. It really isn’t            

                Alligator in the sky: Russian combat helicopter performs insane stunts (VIDEO)            

                Sick joke: Blogger arrested after brutal coronavirus prank on Moscow subway (VIDEO)            

                ‘Leave me be’: Did the Simpsons REALLY predict Tom Hanks would get CORONAVIRUS?            

                The BBC used to be gold standard, now it’s losing public trust with political meddling            

                Twitter locks out Candace Owens for call to ‘stand up’ to Michigan governor over Covid lockdown – Trump supporters scream BIAS            

                Covid contradiction? Pompeo believes coronavirus was 'man-made,' also agrees with intelligence that it was not            

                ‘Invasion by sea’: Venezuela thwarts ‘mercenary’ infiltration attempt from Colombia            

                ‘If Trump launched nukes, could we stop him?’ Germany’s SPD clashes with coalition allies over NATO nuclear sharing            