President of Turkey Recep Tayyip Erdogan (C), President of Russia Vladimir Putin (L) and President of Iran Hassan Rouhani (R) pose for a photo after the joint press conference held within the Turkey-Russia-Iran trilateral summit at Cankaya Mansion in Ankara, Turkey on 16 September 2019.
[Volkan Furuncu - Anadolu Agency]
The Russian International Affairs Council (RIAC) expects that Russia, Turkey and Iran will reach a consensus to remove the head of the Syrian regime, Bashar Al-Assad, and establish a ceasefire in exchange for forming a transitional government that includes the opposition, members of the regime and the Syrian Democratic Forces (SDF).
The RIAC, which is known to be close to the decision-makers in the Russian government, said in a report that a Russian organisation named the Foundation for the Protection of National Values, affiliated with the security services and the office of President Vladimir Putin, has been conducting an opinion poll in Syria.
This would send a very clear political message, conveying that the Syrian people do not want Al-Assad to remain president.
The report stated that, since the beginning of its military intervention in Syria, Moscow has been keen to avoid being presented as the defender of Al-Assad, adding that in negotiations it has stressed that “the Syrian people will decide whether or not Al-Assad will remain in power”.
Russia has become more serious about making changes in Syria, RIAC explained, not least because protecting Al-Assad has become a burden.
The news agency considered that while Moscow is ready to use Al-Assad to negotiate an agreement that guarantees its interests; it is sacrificing Syrians to ensure that Al-Assad remains in power.
It indicated that the second option requires a complete withdrawal of all foreign forces and the unification of the country after achieving a political transformation in accordance with UN Security Council Resolution No. 2254.
Turkey has long called for the removal of Al-Assad as a prerequisite to the end of its operation in Syria.