Thae Yong-ho, one of two North Korean defectors with seats in South Korean parliament, apologized on Monday for earlier comments regarding Kim Jong Un. File Photo by Yonhap/EPA-EFE
Thae Yong-ho, the senior North Korean diplomat who fled Pyongyang's Embassy in London in 2016, said his decision to speak publicly about the North Korean leader was a mistake, South Korean television network MBC reported Monday.

"I have acutely felt the impact of my words," Thae said. "I apologize to all [South Koreans], regardless of the reason."
Ji had said he was "99 percent" certain Kim was dead. Thae had also suggested the North Korean leader was either seriously ill or dead. Neither defector gave evidence to support their claims.
The apologies come after the two defectors, who recently gained seats in South Korean parliament, fell under criticism from their own party, South Korea's opposition.
Kim Se-yeon, a lawmaker with the United Future Party, told local CBS Radio the defectors might have exhibited "overconfidence" in their speculation.

Lee Hae-chan, leader of the ruling Democratic Party, took issue with the media's approach to rumors surrounding Kim Jong Un.
"In the past few days, rash comments and the response from the media, has been at the level of deplorable," Lee, a former prime minister, said, while referring to the press and politicians like Thae and Ji, according to local news service News 1.

Kim Boo-kyum, a ruling party lawmaker, has requested Thae and Ji be excluded from sitting on defense and intelligence committees in parliament, according to MBC.
Yun Kun-young, another ruling party politician, said lawmakers deal with classified information pertaining to national security.
 SEOUL, May 5 (UPI) -- South Korean health officials reported no new local transmissions of COVID-19 for the second day in a row on Tuesday as the country prepares to ease social distancing rules and reopen schools and public facilities.
 May 4 (UPI) -- A film crew in Spain announced Monday the release of video of a rare brown bear filmed in a national park -- the first time the species has been seen in the area for more than a century, wildlife officials said.
 May 4 (UPI) -- A Chinese man who buried hundreds of thousands of dollars five years ago is learning the hard way there may be better ways to store his life savings, according to local reports.
 May 4 (UPI) -- Hard-hit Spain and Italy took steps Monday to gradually ease lockdown restrictions put in place to prevent the spread of COVID-19 while French mayors called for school reopening plans to be delayed.
 May 4 (UPI) -- A Japanese television network apologized for using the photograph of South Korea's first lady in a graphic depicting North Korea's ruling family.
 May 4 (UPI) -- South Korean public schools are to slowly reopen in stages as the COVID-19 situation stabilizes in the country.
 May 4 (UPI) -- Lawmakers will vote on a proposal that all malls, national parks, single-room vacation cabins and hotels with direct-access rooms should be allowed to reopen Tuesday.
 May 3 (UPI) -- The coronavirus death toll in the original epicenters in the world, including China, Italy and Washington state, have subsided tremendously as hotspots emerge elsewhere as the fatalities neared 250,000.
 May 3 (UPI) -- Venezuelan officials said eight people were killed and two were arrested by security forces that thwarted an alleged invasion on Sunday, prompting skepticism from opposition leaders and the United States.
 May 3 (UPI) -- Israel's High Court of Justice on Sunday heard arguments on whether to allow Benjamin Netanyahu to form a coalition government to lead the country despite his indictment on corruption charges.