Nearly 400 employees at a Missouri pork plant tested positive for COVID-19. None of them had symptoms.

All employees at Triumph Foods, a meat-processing plant in St. Joseph, Missouri, were offered COVID-19 testing last week.


Employees who tested positive were asked to isolate at home and will be paid, the company’s CEO said.

Triumph Foods, a pork-processing plant in St. Joseph, Missouri, held companywide coronavirus testing last week.
By Sunday, 373 employees had received positive results, state health officials told Business Insider. But none showed symptoms of the disease.
Triumph Foods employs more than 2,800 workers at the plant in St. Joseph, meaning about 13% had tested positive for the virus.
Employees who are self-isolating will also be sent care packages with hand sanitizer and masks, Campbell said.
“We continue to work this weekend contacting these asymptomatic patients and have initiated the process of contact tracing with those determined to be close contacts of our positive cases,” Dr. Randall Williams, the state’s health director, said in a statement on Sunday.
Despite outbreaks and worker deaths, Trump has ordered meat-processing plants to stay open during the pandemic
Workers’ unions have criticised the executive order, saying it includes no language to ensure that workers’ safety will be protected while the plants remain open.
Additionally, at least 5,000 meatpacking workers and 1,500 food-processing workers had tested positive, been hospitalized, or had to miss work to self-quarantine, the union said.
With conventional monetary policy nearing its limits, a near real-time indicator could help find clarity in the economic fog
Yes, Apple just killed iTunes — here's what that means for your library of music, movies, and TV shows
We took a 4-hour flight on the new Delta Airbus jet that Boeing tried to keep out of the US. Here's what it was like.
I moved to the US from China — here are the biggest cultural differences I've noticed between the 2 countries
Bath & Body Works is now a standalone company — we visited a store and saw why it's been L Brands' secret weapon
CBA and NAB pass on RBA interest rate cut in full, but ANZ and Westpac defy Treasurer Josh Frydenberg's orders
The incredible story of Ferrari's 72-year journey from an upstart racing team to a $27 billion luxury brand