
        Minor suspected of killing Aisha Rabi in 2018 after pelting her car with stones will be released to house arrest in his West Bank home, despite Shin Bet concerns
    
Demonstration to free the suspected killer of Aisha Rabi outside the District Court in Lod, central Israel, 2019.
An Israeli district court has ruled to allow a young settler, suspected of killing a Palestinian woman after throwing stones at her car, to return to his home, despite objections by the Shin Bet security service and state prosecutors, who are concerned that he will be further radicalized.
                                                    
The adolescent, who cannot be publicly named under Israeli law, was until now living under house arrest with his grandparents within the Green Line, but is originally from the West Bank settlement of Kokhav Hashahar, east of Ramallah. The conditions of his house arrest will continue there, tagged with an electronic tracking device and under the supervision of his family.
                                                    
The stone went through the windshield of the car, hitting 47-year-old Aisha Rabi in the head. She died shortly after, while her husband Yacoub suffered light injuries. The other suspects were later released, and the suspect alone was indicted for manslaughter, after traces of his DNA were found on the stone.
                                                    

                                                                                                                                                        I was a settler. I know how settlers become killers
                                                											

                                                                                                                                                        As coronavirus spreads in West Bank, Palestinians also face greater settler violence
                                                											

                                                                                                                                                        Thus the fruit of the land grows
                                                											
State prosecutors objected to returning the suspect to the settlement, arguing that removing him from the West Bank was part of their objective, and that his return would enable him to link up with extremist elements. They also argued that his conduct under house arrest in Kfar Saba was not indicative of his conduct once allowed to return to a “problematic area.” Probation services were not presented with the opinion of the security service regarding the risks. A document presented to the court by the Shin Bet opposed returning the adolescent to his home.
                                                    
In his ruling, the judge wrote that even the Shin Bet agreed that Kokhav Hashahar was a quiet, normal community. The problem lies in adjacent communities, which are more extreme, wrote the judge, adding that since the young man could be surrounded by a “sterile bubble,” with electronic monitoring and family supervision, and since the extremist outposts are outside his settlement, the objections to his return were mitigated. The judge did deny a recommendation by the probation service to reduce the number of people monitoring the youth.
                                                    

                                    Your comment was successfully submitted and will be published in
                                    accordance with site policy.
                                

									If you would like to be notified when your comment is published,
									please fill in your email address in the form below.
								

										‘Fauda’ Isn't Just Ignorant, Dishonest and Sadly Absurd. It's anti-Palestinian Incitement 
			
Haaretz.com, the online edition of Haaretz Newspaper in Israel, and analysis from Israel and the Middle East. Haaretz.com provides extensive and in-depth coverage of Israel, the Jewish World and the Middle East, including defense, diplomacy, the Arab-Israeli conflict, the peace process, Israeli politics, Jerusalem affairs, international relations, Iran, Iraq, Syria, Lebanon, the Palestinian Authority, the West Bank and the Gaza Strip, the Israeli business world and Jewish life in Israel and the Diaspora.