Prime Minister Narendra Modi attends the 'Non-Aligned Movement' Summit via video conferencing, in New Delhi on Monday (Photo: ANI)
In a speech to the Non-Aligned Movement’s virtual meet on the covid-19 crisis, Modi called for international institutions that are more representative of the world today. He also highlighted the need to “promote human welfare and not focus on economic growth alone."
Without naming Pakistan, Modi also slammed the country whose president Arif Alvi had earlier on Monday used the NAM platform to accuse India of inciting hate speeches against India’s Muslims and denying them treatment amid the pandemic.
He called to NAM countries to stand together to ensure that the international community and the World Health Organization focus on building health capacities in developing countries.
The meeting was convened at the initiative of President Ilham Aliyev of Azerbaijan, in his capacity as chair of the Non Aligned Movement. This is the first time that Modi was taking part in a NAM summit. The prime minister did not attend NAM summits in 2016 and 2019. Modi’s participation in the meet follows meetings with South Asian countries and the G20 developed and developing nations on the pandemic.
Modi began his speech by offering condolences to people who had lost their loved ones to the pandemic which first surfaced in China in December. Till now, it has infected 3.5 million people and killed almost 250,000 in 185 countries and regions.
India, he said, accounted for a sixth of humanity and was a “developing country" and a “free society."
“During this crisis we have shown how democracy, discipline and decisiveness can come together to create a genuine people’s movement," he said referring to a more 40 day lockdown period imposed to arrest the spread of the disease in a country of 1.3 billion people.
“India’s civilization sees the whole world as one family, As we care for our own citizens we are also extending help to other countries," Modi said. India has sent medicines to 123 partner countries including 59 members of NAM. “We are active in global in global efforts to develop remedies and vaccines."
Closer home, India has also coordinated with its immediate neighbours, sharing its expertise through online training sessions, he said.
Without naming Pakistan, Modi said: “Even as world fights covid-19, some people are busy spreading other deadly viruses such as terrorism, such as fake news and doctored videos to divide communities and countries" referring to recent attempts by Pakistan to inflame tensions in India. “But today I want to focus only on the positives on what we as a movement can do together to fight this health crisis," Modi said.
“Covid-19 has shown us the limitations of the existing international system. In the post covid world, we need a new template of globalization based on fairness equality and humanity," he said. “We need international institutions that are more representative of today’s world. We need to promote human welfare and not focus on economic growth alone," he added. Equitable, affordable and timely access to health products and technology for all was the need of the hour, he added.
You are now subscribed to our newsletters. In case you can’t find any email from our side, please check the spam folder.