Paramedics and drivers told The Moscow Times they have caught the virus en masse while driving for hours in search of free hospital beds.

											“I’m very scared,” said one ambulance driver. “Just this morning one of our drivers was put on a ventilator.” 										
At the end of a 24-hour-shift on Monday, Ruzanna Kirakosyan realized she had come down with a high fever. 
So the 47-year-old paramedic in the Moscow region city of Mozhayzk decided it was time to stay home. Before that, she said, she couldn’t make an informed decision because no one in her station had been tested for the coronavirus a single time since the pandemic hit Russia.
“Yesterday we only had two-and-a-half brigades,” Kirakosyan told The Moscow Times Friday evening. She explained that when fully staffed the station has seven brigades, each required to have two medics.
As the coronavirus pandemic rages on, the healthcare system for Russia’s most populated area has been stretched to the limit — its ambulance system perhaps most of all.
Over the past week, ambulance workers have been featured prominently on state media, depicted as stoic heroes battling the pandemic. The flurry of coverage coincided with Russia’s unofficial day of ambulance workers — April 28 — which that same day President Vladimir Putin 
“Thank you for your work that is so needed by people,” he said during a televised conference call with officials. “In these busy days and weeks you are showing courage, your best human qualities.”
 with the state-run RIA Novosti news agency: “We just need a little patience and everything will be fine.” 
But in interviews with The Moscow Times, a half dozen ambulance workers in the Moscow region — which state television this week 
 as having one of the largest ambulance corps in the country — described growing despondency among their ranks. 
 by doctors, he is one of nine ambulance workers who have been killed by the coronavirus nationwide. 
“I’m very scared,” Dmitry, a 49-year-old ambulance driver in the Moscow region city of Krasnogorsk, who asked that his last name be withheld, said Wednesday. “Just this morning one of our drivers was put on a ventilator.” 

				Italian Doctors Warned Hospitals Are Coronavirus Vectors. One Russian Region Proves Their Point.			
In interviews, ambulance workers complained officials were hanging them out to dry despite promises to come to their aid.
Last month, Putin promised 10 billion rubles ($132 million) toward monthly bonuses for healthcare staff, with 25,000 ($336) to 50,000 rubles ($674) per month earmarked for ambulance medics and drivers, while Moscow region governor Andrei Vorobyov said he had 
Of the ambulance workers who spoke with The Moscow Times, only Dmitry Belyakov, a 54-year-old driver in the Moscow region city of Zheleznodorozhny, said he had received a bonus so far. It totaled 7,200-rubles ($95.40). 
“No one cares about us,” Kirakosyan said. “We’re not waiting for the money to be quite honest. They promise a lot — we were also supposed to be tested once a week.”
 earlier this week on ambulance workers at a research institute that had been ferrying patients, 111 tested positive.
Ambulance workers in the Moscow region blamed a lack of personal protective equipment (PPE) for the fact that so many of them have become infected with the coronavirus. Most said their brigades had purchased construction worker suits at Leroy Merlin — a home improvement chain widespread around the region — which they bleach after their shifts and dry in their stations.

				Russia’s Healthcare System Faced Cuts for Years. Now Medical Students Are on the Coronavirus Frontlines.			
That wouldn’t have been clear from watching a program on state television channel Moskva 24 this week 
“The thing is we only have a few suits like that for the entire region,” said Yevgeniya Bogatyryova, a 33-year-old paramedic in the Moscow region city of Korolyov.
“I told them this, but of course they left that out,” Bogatyryova, who was quoted in the report, added with a sigh. 
Bogatyryova, who is also the representative for the region’s ambulance workers with independent medical labor union 
 — or Action — said that every day she gets new calls from ambulance workers complaining that they are sick with fevers and viral respiratory symptoms and can no longer work. 
With fewer and fewer people available for shifts, the work becomes more difficult for those still able.
“We are not even at the peak yet and a brigade in the best-case scenario is getting 25 requests per 24 hours,” Bogatyryova said. “We joke that if the virus doesn’t kill us, exhaustion will.”
“Last week we took someone with double pneumonia to a hospital in Zheleznodorozhny, but there was no space so we took him to Klin, where there also was no room,” Kirakosyan said, referring to another Moscow region town. “After 15 hours we brought the patient home. The next morning we went out with him again.”

				‘We Don’t Have Enough Intensive Care Beds’: Coronavirus Will Test Russia’s Creaking Healthcare System			
Yelena Novikova, a 50-year-old paramedic in the Moscow region city of Balashikha, laid out a grim account of her past few weeks.
“I brought patients home multiple times and had to leave them there because there was no space at hospitals,” she said. “I don’t know what happened to them after that.” 
Novikova is now on sick leave at home with a high fever and pneumonia in both lungs, which was found after she went to a clinic for a CT scan earlier this week. 
Dmitry, the driver in Krasnogorsk, sent The Moscow Times screenshots of a group chat for drivers at his station after their colleague was hospitalized Wednesday in the Moscow region city of Odintsovo.
Students told The Moscow Times they face academic repercussions if they reject a government order to work in coronavirus hospitals. 

								Exclusive: First Russian Doctor Treating Coronavirus Patients Dies From Virus, Medical Workers Say			
A colleague told The Moscow Times that 64 of the Moscow hospital’s staff had tested positive last week.

								Russia’s Healthcare System Faced Cuts for Years. Now Medical Students Are on the Coronavirus Frontlines.			
It will become the third medical facility assigned to treat patients infected with the virus in Russia's capital.

							The Moscow Times’ team of journalists has been first with the big stories on the coronavirus crisis in Russia since day one. Our exclusives and on-the-ground reporting are being read and shared by many high-profile journalists.
                        

							We wouldn’t be able to produce this crucial journalism without the support of our loyal readers. Please consider making a donation to The Moscow Times to help us continue covering this historic time in the world’s largest country.
						