By clicking on the "Accept & Close" button, you provide your explicit consent to the processing of your data to achieve the above goal.
https://cdn1.img.sputniknews.com/img/107715/10/1077151060_0:5:1200:680_1200x675_80_0_0_e8446dc4550a4e331c02670ca4b8d1ee.jpg
https://sputniknews.com/latam/202005031079184301-brazilian-mayor-begs-greta-thunberg-for-help-in-saving-amazon-protectors-from-covid-19/
Brazil is facing an unprecedented wave of coronavirus with the death rate surpassing that of China where the virus began. The president has waved off the crisis but some regional governments have resorted to mass graves amid an overwhelmed healthcare system.
"My very dear Greta Ernman Thunberg... I'm telling you that we are needing help. We have to save the lives of the protectors of the forest", Mayor Arthur Virgílio Neto said in a video message. 
​A spike in cases in the city has seen hospitals, emergency responders, and cemeteries overwhelmed since April as the coronavirus outbreak continues to plague the city.
Thunberg has yet to respond to the message but on the same day she indirectly mentioned Brazil on social media when she retweeted a post about indigenous people being disproportionately affected by COVID-19 and pledged to #defendthedefenders.

                
                Your comment contains a link, so it can't be published on our site
                
            
We are committed to protecting your personal information and we have updated our Privacy Policy to comply with the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR), a new EU regulation that went into effect on May 25, 2018.
Since you already shared your personal data with us when you created your personal account, to continue using it, please check the box below:
The fact of registration and authorization of users on Sputnik websites via users’ account or accounts on social networks indicates acceptance of these rules.
Users are obliged abide by national and international laws. Users are obliged to speak respectfully to the other participants in the discussion, readers and individuals referenced in the posts.
The websites’ administration has the right to delete comments made in languages ​​other than the language of the majority of the websites’ content.
promotes hatred and discrimination on racial, ethnic, sexual, religious or social basis or violates the rights of minorities;
contains insults, threats to other users, individuals or specific organizations, denigrates dignity or undermines business reputations;
violates privacy, distributes personal data of third parties without their consent or violates privacy of correspondence;
pursues commercial objectives, contains improper advertising, unlawful political advertisement or links to other online resources containing such information;
contains offensive language or profanity and its derivatives, as well as hints of the use of lexical items falling within this definition;
promotes the use of narcotic / psychotropic substances, provides information on their production and use;
is part of an organized action involving large volumes of comments with identical or similar content ("flash mob");
doesn’t follow standard rules of the English language, for example, is typed fully or mostly in capital letters or isn’t broken down into sentences.
The administration has the right to block a user’s access to the page or delete a user’s account without notice if the user is in violation of these rules or if behavior indicating said violation is detected.
In the case of repeated violations of the rules above resulting in a second block of a user’s account, access cannot be restored.