SINGAPORE - The Progress Singapore Party (PSP) said on Monday (May 4) its internal investigations have showed no evidence of foreign funding within the party, refuting allegations made by a member it recently expelled.
The opposition party stated categorically that its funding is in compliance with the Political Donations Act, and that it has "no tolerance for saboteurs" and will expel members who do not abide by the party's rules.
"PSP refutes the claim made by Daniel Teo in The Straits Times report dated May 3, 2020, and any insinuation that the party has 'been infiltrated and funded by foreign sources'," said the party .
Mr Teo has since admitted to PSP secretary-general Tan Cheng Bock that he was behind the video, and was expelled from the party on May 1.
On Saturday (May 2), Mr Teo had told ST he made the video after receiving information from a third party, which he declined to name. He said he had good intentions for the party, and wanted to fact-check the allegations.
The party explained in its statement on Monday that Mr Teo had previously made the allegations to certain members of the party's Central Executive Committee.
"However, no evidence was presented by him. Our internal investigations showed no such matters and his allegations were dismissed."
It said that anyone who wishes to make potentially libellous allegations against any party member has to present proper evidence as the party does not react to hearsay or rumours.
The party is currently awaiting further updates from the police on the pending investigations, it said in the statement.
It added that some of the members who were implicated in Mr Teo's video have made their own police reports and sought legal counsel.
PSP member Ravi Philemon, who was among the 10 named, told The Straits Times on Monday that he is currently consulting a lawyer on the matter. He had categorically denied the allegations in a Facebook post on Saturday morning.
SPH Digital News / Copyright © 2020 Singapore Press Holdings Ltd. Co. Regn. No. 198402868E. All rights reserved 
We have been experiencing some problems with subscriber log-ins and apologise for the inconvenience caused. Until we resolve the issues, subscribers need not log in to access ST Digital articles. But a log-in is still required for our PDFs.