The phrase "Arbeit macht frei" translates to "work will set you free" and was used on the gates of Auschwitz.
The Auschwitz Memorial in Poland has condemned a viral photo of a sign from an anti-lockdown protest in Chicago on Friday that bore a phrase from the Nazi concentration camp.
The photo was taken at around 12:30 p.m. by nurse Dennis Kosuth, who attended the event as a counterprotester.
Kosuth said several anti-lockdown demonstrators were trying to provoke him and other nurses by claiming they were actors or that the death toll from the coronavirus was not accurate. "My approach was to ignore people," he told BuzzFeed News in a phone interview on Saturday, "but then I saw her sign and said, 'That's pretty messed up. Why would you bring that here?'"
This was one of the signs at the “Re-open Illinois” event today. She assured those that she was not a Nazi, and stated, “I have Jewish friends.” Thank you for representing yourself and your “movement” for what it is.
Among those who shared it were staff at the Auschwitz Memorial in Poland, who said it "painful to see this symbol instrumentalized and used again to spread hate."
"Arbeit macht frei" was a false, cynical illusion the SS gave to prisoners of #Auschwitz. Those words became one of the icons of human hatred. It's painful to see this symbol instrumentalized &amp; used again to spread hate. It's a symptom of moral &amp; intellectual degeneration. https://t.co/ZRxja8x6eS
Kosuth was unaware of the memorial's response until his interview with BuzzFeed News, but he said he agreed "100% with that statement."
"I'm glad in that sense that this picture has gotten out here because it shows the dark side of history," he said.
@nico1e_snow I took it with my own phone, I can’t make this up, this is actually the sad state some people exist in
He provided BuzzFeed News with the live photo which showed the woman moving while holding the sign as another woman shouted "the gates of Auschwitz."
Illinois Gov @JBPritzker's family is 1) Jewish &amp; 2) arrived in Chicago after fleeing pogroms in Kyiv. 

But don't tell that to this protester at the Reopen Illinois rally in Springfield today.
📷: @MikeMiletichTV
Asked why he thought his photo had gone viral, Kosuth responded, "I think a lot of people don't like Nazis — and that gives me hope."