

        ‘Turbocharging’ exodus: US beats trade war drums to remove supply chains out of China

    
FILE PHOTO: Chinese container ship "Cosco Shipping Aries" at a loading terminal in the port of Hamburg © Reuters / Fabian Bimmer 


        The US wants to сut industrial and supply dependence on China amid rising tensions between the two powers. However, not everyone is eager to pack their bags and leave the lucrative Chinese market in the midst of the previous row.

    
The Trump administration has long been pushing American firms to get back to US soil, especially when trade tensions were flaring between the two biggest global economies. Now the US has revived the trade war rhetoric again.
“We’ve been working on [reducing the reliance of our supply chains in China] over the last few years but we are now turbo-charging that initiative,”
Krach as well as other officials told the agency that some critical and essential manufacturing should be moved from the country, and the government may take steps on it soon. Apart from the US’ seemingly favorite options of tariffs and sanctions, the plans may include tax incentives and potential reshoring subsidies as well as closer relations with Taiwan – a move which has always angered  Beijing. 
 “on everything from digital business, energy and infrastructure to research, trade, education and commerce.”
China’s vital role in global supply chains was felt sharply amid the coronavirus pandemic as many international giants – from tech to car industries – are reliant on the country. The pandemic has forced some US companies to seriously consider at least partial relocation and changing supply chain strategy, according to one of the latest polls conducted by the American Chamber of Commerce in China and its sister organization in Shanghai. However, the majority of firms said that the outbreak does push them to turn their backs on China.  
Set aside the enormous relocation costs – which the White House has recently pledged to cover should an American company decide to ditch China – there is still another massive hurdle in this plan. China is still the world’s top producer of rare earth metals – the group of elements vital for production of multiple devices, from cell phones to some advanced military gear. Should all the production be moved from China, it could ban exports of these materials. Last year Chinese media said the option was already being mulled by Beijing, and it could consider the drastic measure again if trade war tensions further escalate.

                What are rare earth metals & why they are China's ‘nuclear option’ in trade war with US            

                China beats US in key patents to secure technological dominance – report            

                Which businesses can survive the greatest financial crisis of our lifetime?            

                US debt crisis wasn’t supposed to happen until at least 2035. Covid-19 is rapidly pushing it closer            

                World economy has entered a recession 'as bad or worse' than the global financial crisis – IMF chief            

                China's exports of key medical supplies rise to $1.5 BILLION amid global shortage of anti-virus gear            

                OPEC+ strikes last-minute deal to cut almost 10 mn barrels a day of oil production            

                'I'd prefer your sister': Marco Materazzi DEFENDS taunt against Zidane's family that led to infamous World Cup final headbutt            