Hong Kong's economy shrank 8.9% in the January-to-March period compared to a year earlier, according to estimates released by the government on Monday. It's the third straight quarter of contraction for the trade and finance hub, and its worst quarterly drop since records began in 1974. 
"The threat of Covid-19 seriously disrupted a wide range of local economic activities and supply chains in the region," a government spokesman said in a statement that accompanied the data. "With the disease evolving into a pandemic in March, the economic fallout became even more severe."
The sharp declines in exports, investment and private consumption add to the misfortunes of a fragile Hong Kong economy. 
Instead, the coronavirus has crushed any hope for a near-term recovery and sent the economy into an even more precipitous decline. When compared to the already weak fourth quarter of 2019, GDP in the first quarter still shrank 5.3%. 
"Looking ahead, with the Covid-19 pandemic causing a severe contraction of global economic activity, Hong Kong's exports will remain under notable pressure in the near term," according to the government statement.
The government also reiterated its forecast of a 4% to 7% contraction for Hong Kong's economy in 2020. 
The continued economic slump "is worrying," Hong Kong Financial Secretary Paul Chan wrote in a blog post Sunday, adding that this year could be the worst for Hong Kong's economy since it started keeping annual records.
He expected the economy to rebound somewhat, as the city eases restrictions on workplaces and social gatherings this month. But since the global economy is still struggling with the pandemic, it's unlikely Hong Kong will have a strong recovery in the near term.
The government has rolled out several rounds of relief measures totaling 290 billion Hong Kong dollars ($37 billion) to blunt the economic blow. That includes a cash handout of $10,000 Hong Kong dollars (roughly $1,200) to eligible residents.
Most stock quote data provided by BATS. Market indices are shown in real time, except for the DJIA, which is delayed by two minutes. All times are ET. Disclaimer. Morningstar: Copyright 2018 Morningstar, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Factset: FactSet Research Systems Inc.2018. All rights reserved. Chicago Mercantile Association: Certain market data is the property of Chicago Mercantile Exchange Inc. and its licensors. All rights reserved. Dow Jones: The Dow Jones branded   indices are proprietary to and are calculated, distributed and marketed by DJI Opco, a subsidiary of S&P Dow Jones Indices LLC and have been licensed for use to S&P Opco, LLC and CNN. Standard & Poor's and S&P are registered trademarks of Standard & Poor's Financial Services LLC and Dow Jones is a registered trademark of Dow Jones Trademark Holdings LLC.  All content of the Dow Jones branded indices Copyright S&P Dow Jones Indices LLC 2018 and/or its affiliates.