There is no current evidence to suggest that coronavirus leaked from a Chinese research laboratory, intelligence sources have told the Guardian, contradicting recent White House claims that there is growing proof this is how the pandemic began.
British and other Five Eyes agencies do believe that Beijing has not necessarily been open about how coronavirus initially spread in Wuhan at the turn of the year. But they are nervous about getting involved in an escalating international situation.
No evidence was offered by Pompeo to back up his assertion but information has been circulating over the last month in the UK, US and Australia aimed at raising questions about the high security Wuhan Institute of Virology, which has long specialised in researching coronaviruses in horseshoe bats.
Stories have suggested that workers in the lab may not have always used full protective equipment, and that in one instance a bat urinated on a researcher who did not subsequently become ill.
Claims are even made that the virus was genetically engineered in Wuhan, although there is both scientific and intelligence agency agreement that there is no evidence for this.
Australia’s Daily Telegraph – a Sydney tabloid owned by Rupert Murdoch – has been focusing on the Wuhan lab for several days, culminating in a weekend report which cited a 15-page dossier compiled, it said, by “concerned Western governments” amid an investigation by British and other members of the Five Eyes intelligence agencies.
Downing Street said that the UK did not comment on intelligence matters – although British sources also said they did not recognise the dossier as based on classified information provided by the country’s spy agencies.
Downing Street said it would not comment on intelligence matters, but a No 10 spokesman said: “Clearly there are questions that need to be answered about the origin and spread of the virus, not least so we can ensure we are better prepared for future global pandemics.”
Neil O’Brien, a Conservative MP and secretary of the China Research Group, said that Beijing could help fend off speculation with greater transparency: “If their government were less secretive and authoritarian they would cooperate more and so potentially put to bed wilder ideas about the origins of the virus.”
Charles Parton, a former foreign office official and senior associate fellow at the Royal United Services Institute, said: “People pushing these sort of lines are doing everybody a disservice.
“It will inevitably prompt a Chinese reaction at a time when there is a need for a proper scientific understanding of its causes, and, in the longer term, to work together to stop pandemics happening again.’’
WHO, Fauci and intel sources reject China lab theory; global deaths pass 250,000; Hong Kong suffers deepest economic contraction
While politicians in other countries are seeking consensus, Spain’s political adversaries are using virus as a cudgel