

        ‘We don’t care about coronavirus’: Thousands attend mass prayer in Afghanistan during Ramadan, defying quarantine (VIDEO)

    


        Thousands of defiant Muslims have held public prayers during Ramadan in Afghanistan, ignoring Covid-19 safety measures. Their radical leader previously said that dying from the virus would be a form of martyrdom.

    
A large crowd of followers of hardline Salafist preacher Mujib Rahman Ansari had gathered for an open-air group prayer near the Gazer Gah Sharif pilgrimage site in Herat, Afghanistan’s third-largest city. The worshippers sat in tight rows, close to each other, ignoring social distancing norms and not wearing masks or other protective gear.
“We don’t care about the coronavirus. We believe God created the coronavirus. I think it is just a creation of God, just as we are. It was God’s will to create such a virus,”
Many Muslim clerics have urged worshipers to pray at home during Ramadan – a holy month in Islam – and to continue social distancing during the pandemic. Meanwhile, a number of countries, including Iran, have cancelled Friday prayers in major cities to avoid the spread of the disease. 

                More government spending is needed in Britain & it should be paid for with a ‘War Tax’ on companies profiting from Covid-19            

                ‘Trying every trick in the book’: UK government changes rules to hit 100k coronavirus tests target – report            

                ‘These are very good people’: Trump urges Michigan governor to ‘make a deal’ with capitol protesters            

                What’s in the archives? Panicked Biden tries to dodge search for sexual assault claims proof in bizarre Morning Joe interview            

                Macron warns life ‘won’t be back to normal’ as Covid-19 forces French to find new way of ‘social distance’ protest            

                Forget #BelieveWomen, ‘I Believe Biden’ is trending! Democrats rush to defend sex assault denial – but they won’t like the results            

                Desperate New Yorkers mark May Day with CANCEL RENT protests at governor’s office & city landmarks (VIDEOS)            

                The BBC used to be gold standard, now it’s losing public trust with political meddling            

                ‘Tesla stock price is too high’: Elon Musk sends shares into freefall with deluge of tweets            