 Flights from India will go to US, the Philippines, Singapore, Bangladesh, UAE, UK, Saudi Arabia, Qatar, Singapore, Phillippines, Oman, Bahrain and Kuwait. 
The first day of evacuation will see 10 flights to bring back 2,300 Indians, according to news agency ANI.
Flights from India will go to US, the Philippines, Singapore, Bangladesh, UAE, UK, Saudi Arabia, Qatar, Singapore, Phillippines, Oman, Bahrain and Kuwait.
On Day 2, around 2,050 Indians will arrive in Chennai, Kochi, Mumbai, Ahmedabad, Bengaluru and Delhi from nine different countries, according to the plan.
The next day, a similar number is expected to arrive in Mumbai, Kochi, Lucknow and Delhi from 13 countries spread across the Middle East, Europe, South East Asia and USA.
On Day 4 of the plan, the government would evacuate 1,850 stranded nationals from eight different countries, including the US, UK and UAE.
Depending on the aircraft being operated, each flight will have between 200 and 300 passengers to ensure that social distancing is maintained. Before boarding the special flights, the passengers need to declare whether they have fever, cough, diabetes or any respiratory disease.
The three ships deployed by the Navy include INS Jalashwa, which can bring back 1,000 stranded Indians. The Jalashwa, based in Visakhapatnam, has steamed into the Arabian Sea for the mission.
India banned all incoming international flights in late March as it imposed one of the world's strictest virus lockdowns, leaving vast numbers of workers and students stranded. Till now, the government had resisted such an operation, given the logistical and safety nightmare of repatriating and quarantining millions of returning citizens.

                                    Education Minister Announces JEE Main, NEET Dates; Details Here                                

                                    Hepatitis C Drugs May Help Fight COVID-19, Suggests Study                                

                                    Government Has To Balance Between Both Health And Economy: Harsh Vardhan                                

                                    Vistara Declares Leave Without Pay Up To 4 Days A Month For Senior Staff                                

                                    It May Be The Time To Bid Goodbye To Your Bed Tea / Coffee: Here's Why                                