
        Shady Habash, 22, had been in prison awaiting a sentence since 2018, after a music video he directed went viral
    
An Egyptian police officer stands at the entrance of the Tora prison in the Egyptian capital Cairo, February 11, 2020.
An Egyptian filmmaker detained without trial for over two years for making a music video that mocked President Abdel Fattah al-Sissi died on Saturday at a maximum-security prison complex, two rights lawyers said.
                                                    
Attorney Ahmed el-Khwaga said his 22-year-old client Shady Habash died in Cairo’s Tora Prison complex. He said the cause of death was not immediately clear.
                                                    
Khaled Ali, a rights lawyer, said Habash should have been released two months ago after serving the maximum jail time during pending investigations.
                                                    
Galal el-Behairy, who wrote the song performed in the video, was also arrested in 2018 after the video provoked the ire of the government when it went viral on social media with millions of views on YouTube.
                                                    
El-Behairy was sentenced by an Egyptian military court to three years in prison after his conviction on charges of “insulting security forces” and “disseminating false news.”
                                                    

                                                                                                                                                        Sissi's crackdown on the arts in Egypt captured in one satirical pop song
                                                											

                                                                                                                                                        Coronavirus under control? Egypt’s latest giant problem awaits
                                                											

                                                                                                                                                        Sissi's 'Jewish mom': Rare Egypt protests chip at leader's iron hold on power
                                                											
Following his death, Habash’s friends published a letter he wrote from prison in October in which he spoke of his despair. “Prison doesn’t kill, loneliness does,” he wrote, describing what he called his struggle to “stop yourself from going mad or dying slowly because you’ve been thrown in a room two years ago and forgotten.”
                                                    
“His psychological state was very bad,” el-Khwaga said of Habash when he saw for the last time two months ago.
                                                    
Earlier this year, a U.S. citizen who had gone on a hunger strike as part of a six-year battle against what he insisted was wrongful imprisonment, died in prison of heart failure.
                                                    
Egyptian authorities said at the time they would investigate the death of Mustafa Kassem, 54, an Egyptian-born auto parts dealer from Long Island, New York.
                                                    
Kassem was in Cairo to visit family in August 2013 when his lawyers say he was mistakenly swept up in a dragnet during the violent dispersal of an Islamist sit-in that killed hundreds of people. He was sentenced to 15 years in prison in a 2018 mass trial of over 700 defendants widely condemned by human rights groups.
                                                    

                                    Your comment was successfully submitted and will be published in
                                    accordance with site policy.
                                

									If you would like to be notified when your comment is published,
									please fill in your email address in the form below.
								

										‘Fauda’ Isn't Just Ignorant, Dishonest and Sadly Absurd. It's anti-Palestinian Incitement 
			
Haaretz.com, the online edition of Haaretz Newspaper in Israel, and analysis from Israel and the Middle East. Haaretz.com provides extensive and in-depth coverage of Israel, the Jewish World and the Middle East, including defense, diplomacy, the Arab-Israeli conflict, the peace process, Israeli politics, Jerusalem affairs, international relations, Iran, Iraq, Syria, Lebanon, the Palestinian Authority, the West Bank and the Gaza Strip, the Israeli business world and Jewish life in Israel and the Diaspora.