Mayor warns 1 in 50 Moscow residents could have Covid-19, while Somalia and Bali deal with outbreaks and Singapore and Spain lift lockdowns
Up to 2% of Moscow’s population may be infected with coronavirus, the city’s mayor warned on Saturday, as hospitals in the Russian capital were overwhelmed and another top government official tested positive.
Covid-19 took hold relatively late in Russia, but is now growing fast, with the country showing the second-highest spread of the disease in the world. A record 9,623 new cases on Saturday indicated infections have not yet reached a plateau.
If Moscow mayor Sergei Sobyanin’s estimate is correct, that would mean more than 240,000 people may have the virus, four times official figures for the city. Hospitals in the capital are already at capacity, with television footage showing ambulances forced to wait for hours to deliver the infected.
On Friday authorities announced the housing minister was the latest top official to test positive. Vladimir Putin has not been pictured in public for nearly a month and is working from his residence outside Moscow.
There are fears outbreaks may have festered undetected in other areas that initially appeared to have escaped the worst ravages of the disease.
Mohamed Osman Warsame, an ambulance driver, said he had transported between 15 and 18 corpses to cemeteries in the capital every day for the last two weeks, many times above the usual daily figure of between two and four. “There are a lot of deaths. It is like we are in a deadly war. People are dying so fast,” Warsame said.
The UN said the arrests could push vulnerable groups into hiding and prevent them from seeking treatment, and warned that overcrowded detention centres carried a high risk of increasing the virus’s spread.
Privacy advocates in India have also attacked a government order that all public and private sector employees should use a government-backed Bluetooth tracing app, as New Delhi begins easing some of its lockdown measures in lower-risk areas.
Critics warn that it is unclear how the data will be used. They stress India lacks privacy laws to govern the app. New Delhi has said the app will not infringe on privacy as all data is collected anonymously.
Worldwide there are now 3.4 million cases of coronavirus and more than 238,000 deaths, although many countries that have passed the peak of their infections are now working on relaxing their lockdown restrictions.
Singapore’s health minister said on Saturday that it will start easing some curbs after a second wave of the coronavirus concentrated in the state’s crowded migrant worker dormitories appeared to subside, with some students allowed back to school later this month.
All governments, however, are moving cautiously, for fear of a second wave. In China the northeastern city of Harbin shut-dine in services at restaurants and cafes as the rest of the country was easing restrictions for the May Day holiday.
Mainland China reported only one new case on Saturday, but Heilongjiang province is currently dealing with the country’s biggest remaining coronavirus cluster, with half of 140 recent local transmissions, according to a Reuters tally.
In the US, Australia and the UK, there has been a focus on how and why residential facilities have become deadly incubators for the disease.
In Australia, although the virus has been brought under control far more quickly, deaths also continued to mount at a care home in western Sydney. Thirteen residents account for over 10% of the total national death toll of only 93, and it is threatening to overtake the Ruby Princess cruise ship as the single biggest source of deaths in the country.
Also in the US, the White House has barred the administration’s top pandemic expert, Dr Anthony Fauci, from giving evidence at a Congressional hearing. It said it was not appropriate for a member of the pandemic response team to testify.
Donald Trump has told Michigan’s governor, Gretchen Whitmer, that she should “make a deal” with anti-lockdown protesters after groups of heavily armed men swarmed the state capitol. Whitmer rejected making a deal during a public health emergency, but said some outdoor work will be allowed to resume next week.