

        North Korean defectors apologize for Kim Jong-un death rumors – but will Western media ever develop healthy skepticism?

    


        Defectors from North Korea have apologized for spreading fake news about leader Kim Jong-un’s death. Will a Western media that believes their every word now finally start fact-checking their wild claims about the country?

    
Two defectors serving in South Korea’s parliament issued public apologies on Monday after insisting the North Korean ruler was dead or close to it. The apologies came on the heels of heavy rebukes from the South’s ruling Democratic Party, as well as calls for the defectors to be punished for spreading false rumors.
While North Korean defectors are rich sources of questionable updates about the country for information-starved journalists, one might hope that, after being proven so egregiously wrong yet again, Western outlets have learned to be more careful about taking their word for it when it comes to wild claims about their former country. But if history is any indication, no amount of embarrassing corrections will convince them to stop credulously printing unsourced ‘reports’ that are little more than wartime atrocity propaganda.
One member of South Korea’s Democratic Party called on both defectors to be excluded from the intelligence and defense committees for their irresponsibility, and another accused them of contributing little to society. An activist group accused both men, along with the leader of the opposition party, of spreading disinformation.
Why does MSM believe bizarre rumors coming from the South about North Korea? The two countries are still technically AT WAR!

                ‘I just wish him well’: Trump says he has ‘good idea’ of Kim Jong-un’s condition            

                US push for low-yield nukes makes atomic war MORE likely as Russia will retaliate with full force, Moscow says            

                More government spending is needed in Britain & it should be paid for with a ‘War Tax’ on companies profiting from Covid-19            

                Macron warns life ‘won’t be back to normal’ as Covid-19 forces French to find new way of ‘social distance’ protest            

                Desperate New Yorkers mark May Day with CANCEL RENT protests at governor’s office & city landmarks (VIDEOS)            

                The BBC used to be gold standard, now it’s losing public trust with political meddling            

                To impose further sanctions on Iran, the US rewrites history and engages in semantic gymnastics            

                North Korea’s Kim makes public appearance at FERTILIZER PLANT amid death rumors fueled by Trump’s coy stance (PHOTOS)            

                Once he recovers from Covid-19, PM Mishustin faces new ordeal – reviving economy & Kremlin’s popularity with thinning oil kitty            

                Banning hotel minibars, spraying bleach on beaches, dumping chicken manure on roads: Around the world in 80 madcap lockdown rules            

                ANOTHER leaked intel report accuses China of ‘intentionally’ concealing coronavirus danger to hoard medical supplies            

                Oxford’s calls for MORAL quarantine isn’t only attempt to undermine free speech, it’s DEGRADATION of academic teaching & learning            

                50 years ago today US troops massacred antiwar protesters at Kent State. Now, imperialists don’t need guns; they use the media            