‘They Accept Us as We Are;’ Christians Join Forces With Muslim Group Hezbollah to Fight ISIS in Lebanon
https://www.christianpost.com/amp/they-accept-us-as-we-are-christians-join-forces-with-muslim-group-hezbollah-to-fight-isis-in-lebanon.html
‘They Accept Us as We Are;’ Christians Join Forces With Muslim Group Hezbollah to Fight ISIS in Lebanon
“We’re in a very dangerous situation,” he said. “The only people who are protecting us are the resistance of Hezbollah. The only one standing with the army is Hezbollah. Let’s not hide it anymore.”
Nasrallah said Hezbollah does not expect its allies to convert to Islam or create an allegiance to the group’s ideals.
“They accept us as we are,” he said. “They do not impose on us anything. When there’s an occasion, they come to our children’s birthdays. The people here accept that Hezbollah comes and helps.”
This unlikely alliance between Christians and Hezbollah is a far cry from the adversarial relationship depicted between the two groups in the region.
According to the IB Times report, however, the alliance is one of convenience. Hezbollah is Iran’s strongest proxy in that area of Lebanon and has been a key factor in keeping President Bashar Assad’s regime in power after four years of the Syrian war. Protecting Ras Baalbek is a priority for the group because losing it to ISIS would put the surrounding Shiite towns under direct threat.
“We are not speaking of an assumed threat, we are speaking of a real aggression that exists every hour, every day, every night,” said Hezbollah Secretary-General Hassan Nasrallah in a recent speech. He explained that armed groups have launched continuous attacks inside Lebanese territories while also holding dozens of Lebanese soldiers and police officers hostage, “so we need a permanent solution.”
Last fall, The Christian Post reported that GOP 2016 presidential candidate, Sen. Ted Cruz, R-Texas, was booed after he offended some Middle Eastern Christians by declaring at an event in Washington, D.C. that “Christians have no greater ally than Israel.”
Mark Tooley, president of the Institute of Religion and Democracy and an attendee at the evening event, later wrote in a blog entry that he was not surprised by the reaction.
‘They Accept Us as We Are;’ Christians Join Forces With Muslim Group Hezbollah to Fight ISIS in Lebanon
“It’s no secret that many Mideast Christians generally aren’t big fans of Israel. I learned this firsthand during the 2006 Israel war on Hezbollah, when my discussion at church with a Lebanese Christian nearly escalated to a shouting match,” wrote Tooley.
“Sometimes American Christians romanticize overseas persecuted Christians into disembodied noble souls unaffected by terrestrial concerns. But they, like everybody else, have histories, loyalties, resentments, grievances, and political calculations.”
Another American body, the Defense Intelligence Agency, however, said both Iran and Hezbollah were still terrorism threats.
“Hezbollah continues to support the Syrian regime, pro-regime militants and Iraqi Shiite militants in Syria. Hezbollah trainers and advisors in Iraq assist Iranian and Iraqi Shiite militias fighting Sunni extremists there. Select Iraqi Shiite militant groups also warned of their willingness to fight U.S. forces returning to Iraq,” it noted.
The Essential Saker III: Chronicling The Tragedy, Farce And Collapse of the Empire in the Era of Mr MAGA
The Essential Saker II: Civilizational Choices and Geopolitics / The Russian challenge to the hegemony of the AngloZionist Empire
a heavier version of quoting a block of text that can span several lines. Use these possibilities appropriately. They are meant to help you create and follow the discussions in a better way. They can assist in grasping the content value of a comment more quickly.
The "Live Preview" appears automatically when you start typing below the text area and it will show you how your comment will look like before you send it.
“Blowback” is a strange thing, isn’t it?  A perfect example of the Law of Unintended Consequences.  A grim situation in which, to save their lives and loved ones, two different spiritual adherents with common roots and now common cause overcome any differences in order to unite.  It’s so good to see. 
Now, can we only see Shia and Sunni do the same thing – what a force for good that would be. The deep division in which he evil forces of Anglo Imperialism had driven a wedge to use to further their own Hegemonic aims would be blown away indeed.  
The backbone of the Syrian army is composed of Sunni Muslims followed by lessor numbers of Shia Muslims and Orthodox Christians. The multi-confessional society you are hoping for already exists in Syria and it survived the US and its Anglosphere attempt to replace it with Sunni jihadis that hate Christians and Shia Muslims. The US attempt to stroke a Sunni/Shia divide has been substantially defeated by Iran, Hezbollah, and Syria. The US is down to the Saudis and other Gulf States but even there the US strategy is rapidly failing. That Syria survived is a powerful symbol to the region that the US would crush if it could, but cannot.  Except for the elites that sold out to US interests the people of the region are sick of the US and want it to get the hell out.
This article is correct. I know that most Armenians in Syria support Assad and many are in the Syrian army fighting alongside Sunni and Shia Muslims against the western backed jihadis. 
Armenians in Syria consider Iran and Hezbollah allies. With their own eyes they see Hezbollah fighting to liberate and protect Christians. They know who are their friends and who is backing the liver eaters. That perception is spreading within Armenian communities in the US.
Hezbollah is first and foremost a Shiite Lebanese political-military-social organization whose core interest is Lebanon. It serves as an Iranian proxy in Syria. It does not serve as a proxy within Lebanon. They are natives, patriots and have fought wars against invaders and many battles against al Nusra and ISIS by themselves and in coordination alongside the Lebanon military.
They have fought and died in Syria to protect Christian and Sunni locations. They have established for years the honor code that few others can claim.
As for their bravery and skill in battle, Hezbollah has undertaken some of the most daring nighttime operations that have helped turn the tide for the Syrians. Their elite units are comparable to the Russian Spetsnaz.
Of course, the US considers them terrorists. Their competency should ‘terrorize’ the American invaders. The Israelis tasted some of it in 2006. That’s why ISIS and al Nusra, some of the worst scum in human history, are paid for, armed, trained and fight as proxies for the US and Israel. Neither of the US or Israel wants any piece of Hezbollah, up close and personal.
This is an important distinction. They are a local political organisation in Lebanon. Interestingly they just got raided in Germany. Strange timing.
“Germany took strong action today against Hizballah. The U.S. commends our German ally for banning this #Iran-sponsored terrorist group and ensuring its supporters are denied operating space. We call on #EU member states to follow suit in holding Hizballah accountable.”
They didn’t want any Hezbollah in Germany scaring the AQ and ISIS terrorists they prefer to cater to.
Germany is a total whore. It has bolted to the US bosom, turned against China and is the controlling EU voice sustaining sanctions against Russia. 
This nation, Germany, has allowed the six years of bombardment of Donbass civilians. All those thousands of civilians killed, women, old folks, children and men are because of Germany. They still have a fondness for nazism, ethnic cleansing and Bandera.
Other commentators in previous columns have said that Germany has been an occupied nation since 1945 and therefore does not have an independent foreign policy. I remember reading about Trump threatening to sanction Germany for NordStream II.
A humorous account of the Russian Geographic Society (RGSC) intelligence unit's adventures during the Syrian war.
An Android App has been developed by one of our  supporters. It is available for download and install by clicking on the Google Play Store Badge above.