To stay independent, free, and sustainable, our community needs the help of friends and readers like you.
See all those languages up there? We translate Global Voices stories to make the world's citizen media available to everyone.
She also admitted it is not the time to commence the review now and Australia has no details of the proposal. She further said that Australia does not want the matter to have any impact on the Australia-China relationship.
The department will not respond by itself breaching the long standing diplomatic courtesies and professional practices to which it will continue to adhere.
Hope Australia stands firm and doesn’t buckle, also should start looking at other markets to replace China as much as possible, as for the ambassador who tried to intimidate us? He’s a bloody bully and should publicly apologise.
Australia is always there, making trouble. It is a bit like chewing gum stuck on the sole of China’s shoes. Sometimes you have to find a stone to rub it off.
In contrast, others questioned the benefits of Australia's close ties with the United States government:
In terms of our relationship with China and America, the boat must be balanced if Australia is to get through the uncharted and rough waters ahead.
…it affords the Chinese what Australian policymakers should recognise as an unacceptable level of leverage, even a stranglehold, in times of stress.
…It is hard to escape the conclusion that Australia’s China policy is in the hands of amateurs, or ideologues, or both.
Meanwhile, there was some commentary by Chinese citizens on Weibo. Some, including Tong Da Huan, supported an independent inquiry:
The origin of the virus is a scientific question. Tracing the origin can help blocking future outbreaks and inform the science sector on how to combat new viruses. They are saying that the virus comes from the US too? We must have an investigation to clear things up.
Your country is in no position to investigate the origin of the virus in China. If you are allowed to investigate, China should investigate the fires in Australia and ask it for compensation over negligence that leads to global environmental disaster. [Global warming] may lead to the release of an ancient virus in the Arctic and we could ask for your compensation?
Papua New Guinea’s police minister says two journalists who reported on COVID-19 funding ‘can’t be trusted’