MOSCOW'S mayor has warned the coronavirus crisis could be far worse than the country's official figures show.
Russians have become increasingly frustrated with the regime of Vladamir Putin when it comes to their response to the coronavirus pandemic. Critics of the government have cast doubt upon the official death figures. Now, Moscow's mayor has joined them and revealed the real number of cases and be far higher than the number recorded.
The figures come following the warnings from the Kremlin that the pandemic will continue to spread until at least mid-May.
Now, Moscow’s mayor Sergei Sobyanin has said that a survey using improved testing methods suggested numbers were far higher.
The survey suggested at least two per cent of the capital’s citizens are now infected with coronavirus.
This is equal to more than 250,000 people and four times the number of officially confirmed cases in the city.
“Once again I appeal to you, dear Muscovites, with a request to treat self-isolation measures as responsibly as possible.”
That lifts Russia above Turkey in the list of worst-affected countries, according to Johns Hopkins University data.
Russia has struggled to contain the outbreak over the past six weeks, with cases rapidly appearing across its vast territory.
Unlike the European countries with more confirmed cases, the number of cases in Russia are yet to reach a Plateau and continues to rise.
President Vladimir Putin last week warned Russians in a national address that “the most intense stage in the fight against the epidemic” was still ahead.
Mr Putin on Thursday appointed a temporary replacement for prime minister Mikhail Mishustin after he said he had contracted the virus.
The head of Rospotrebnadzor, Russia’s health watchdog, on Sunday said that a national lockdown could be extended beyond mid-May if citizens violated the rules during the annual May holidays that began this weekend.
“Everything is possible . . . we can still sit for a long time, until June, at least,” Anna Popova told state-run television.
“The restrictions can be lifted by assessing the epidemic situation. If people start to violate them today, then by May 12 it will be obvious that we need to strengthen them.”
The leadership in the country is being questioned more than ever as Putin's popularity has plummeted to new lows.
The pandemic has had a devastating toll on Russia’s economy, which has been hard hit by the dramatic drop in oil prices.
The Russian economy is very much reliant on its natural resources, in particular the sales of oil and gas.
Whereas European governments have moved fast to support businesses withstand the economic shock caused by the lockdowns, Putin’s government has moved more cautiously. The Kremlin has introduced limited measures such as interest-free loans and some tax breaks, but these are seen as insufficient.
 See today's front and back pages, download the newspaper,
order back issues and use the historic Daily Express
newspaper archive.