
        Iran's national currency will be changed from the rial to the Toman, which is equal to 10,000 rials, under the bill
    
Iran's national flag waves as Milad telecommunications tower and buildings are seen in Tehran, Iran, Tuesday, March 31, 2020
Iran's parliament has passed a bill allowing the government to slash four zeros from the rial, Iranian state media reported on Monday, after a sharp fall in the value of the currency as a result of crippling U.S. sanctions.
                                                    
Iran's national currency will be changed from the rial to the Toman, which is equal to 10,000 rials, under the bill.
                                                    
"The bill to remove four zeros from the national currency was approved by lawmakers," Iran's Students News Agency ISNA reported. The bill needs to be approved by the clerical body that vets legislation before it takes effect.
                                                    
Iran's state TV said the Central Bank of Iran will have two years to "pave the ground to change the currency to Toman".
                                                    
The idea of removing four zeros has been floated since 2008, but gained strength after 2018, when U.S. President Donald Trump exited Iran's 2015 nuclear deal and reimposed sanctions, as the rial lost more than 60% of its value.
                                                    
The Iranian currency was trading at about 156,000 rials per dollar on the unofficial market on Monday, according to foreign exchange websites.
                                                    
Iran's weak currency and high inflation have led to sporadic street protests since late 2017. 
                                                    

                                                                                                                                                        Coronavirus Israel live: Knesset panel extends Shin Bet tracking by three weeks
                                                											

                                                                                                                                                        Iran says U.S. push to extend Tehran's arms embargo is 'illegitimate'
                                                											

                                                                                                                                                        Venezuela says it foiled boat attack by 'mercenaries' on main port city
                                                											

                                                                                                                                                                                

                                    Your comment was successfully submitted and will be published in
                                    accordance with site policy.
                                

									If you would like to be notified when your comment is published,
									please fill in your email address in the form below.
								

										‘Fauda’ Isn't Just Ignorant, Dishonest and Sadly Absurd. It's anti-Palestinian Incitement 
			
Haaretz.com, the online edition of Haaretz Newspaper in Israel, and analysis from Israel and the Middle East. Haaretz.com provides extensive and in-depth coverage of Israel, the Jewish World and the Middle East, including defense, diplomacy, the Arab-Israeli conflict, the peace process, Israeli politics, Jerusalem affairs, international relations, Iran, Iraq, Syria, Lebanon, the Palestinian Authority, the West Bank and the Gaza Strip, the Israeli business world and Jewish life in Israel and the Diaspora.