Afghan officials have launched a mission to retrieve bodies of migrants from a river in a western province after reports emerged that Iranian border guards tortured and threw Afghans into the river to prevent their entry into Iran.
A senior official from the presidential palace in Kabul said initial assessments suggested at least 70 Afghans who were trying to enter Iran from bordering Herat province were beaten and pushed into the Harirud River.
Doctors at Herat District Hospital said they had received the bodies of Afghan migrants, some of whom had drowned.
"So far, five bodies have been transferred to the hospital, of these bodies, its clear that four died due to drowning," Dr Aref Jalali, head of Herat District Hospital, said.
The Iranian consulate in Herat denied the allegations of torture and subsequent drowning of dozens of Afghan migrant workers by border police.
"Iranian border guards have not arrested any Afghan citizens," the consulate said in a statement on Saturday. 
Iranian embassy officials in the Afghan capital of Kabul were not immediately available for a comment.
Noor Mohammad said he was one of 57 Afghan citizens who were caught by Iranian border guards on Saturday when they were trying to cross into Iran in search of work.
"After being tortured, the Iranian soldiers threw all of us in the Harirud river," Mr Mohammad told Reuters.
"Iranian soldiers warned us that if we do not throw ourselves into the water, we will be shot," Agha said.
Local Afghan officials that it was not the first time that Afghans had been tortured and killed by Iranian police guarding the 920 kilometre-long border.
The incident could trigger a diplomatic crisis between Iran and Afghanistan at a time when the coronavirus pandemic has seen a mass exodus of Afghan migrants from Iran, with many testing positive for COVID-19 as that country continues to battle a large outbreak of the disease
As of Sunday, at least 541 infected people are from Herat province, which recorded 13 deaths, with the majority of positive cases in the nation found among Afghans returning from Iran.
Three charged in killing of US security guard over request to wear face mask to protect against coronavirus
This service may include material from Agence France-Presse (AFP), APTN, Reuters, AAP, CNN and the BBC World Service which is copyright and cannot be reproduced.