 There were also no new deaths to report on Monday. The "cause for celebration" was delivered by director-general of health Dr Ashley Bloomfield at Parliament.
 The result - which came a week out from when Cabinet was due to decide whether the country could move from alert level 3 to 2 - was down to the collective effort of New Zealanders in adhering to restrictions, Bloomfield said.
 While one probable case was reclassified as confirmed on Monday, it did not alter the overall number of Covid-19 cases recorded nationwide, which sat at 1487.
 The vast majority of these cases have recovered - 1276 - with the number of active cases falling below 200 for the first time in 40 days.
 Bloomfield said Monday's result was cause for celebration but emphasised there was a risk people would loosen their attitudes towards the current level 3 restrictions.
Timaru's Wetlands Cafe manager Kiummy Do sells takeaway coffee while observing the level 3 restrictions in place for businesses.
 "This is just a point in time and it remains very important for us to maintain discipline around this and be vigilant," Bloomfield said.
 He said he did not want New Zealand to "squander" advantages gained through restrictions such as physical distancing. 
 The key test would come later in the week when new cases that had emerged since moving to level 3 became symptomatic.
 "The important thing here is that we are still wanting to be sure there is no undetected community transmission," he said.
 "Now is the time to just maintain that vigilance right across the country and as we move into alert level 2, that's when there may be a case for some regional differentiation." 
 Restricting interactions to our bubbles, practising good hand hygiene and the sick remaining at home continued to be the main key messages for the public.
 "We may still see cases emerging later this week and there's no guarantee they won't emerge even in those regions that don't have a case," Bloomfield said.
 On the potential establishment of a trans-Tasman travel bubble, Bloomfield said the Ministry of Health was in constant dialogue with his Australian counterparts about what the key public health measures would be needed should the idea be given a green light.
 Those would include how both countries were testing and isolating cases, a common position around contact tracing and the "ability to exchange information smoothly" should travellers pick up Covid-19 in the other country.
 "My sense is, if I reflect how closely we have worked together over the last three months, right from the early days and trying to go very much in tandem with the range of moves whether it was around the border, in case definitions and sharing of information," Bloomfield said.
 "I'm confident we could continue that to support a trans-Tasman bubble arrangement if that's what the governments agree."
 When asked whether the resumption of domestic flights, or the reopening of retail stores and bars  caused him the biggest concern, Bloomfield said people relaxing their attitudes to physical distancing and hygiene at level 2 would be more of a worry.
 On the influenza vaccine, Bloomfield said more than 1.35 million doses had already been distributed this year - a national record.
 "This is something we have been plugging hard this year, not because the flu vaccine gives any protection whatsoever against Covid-19, but because by vaccinating as many New Zealanders as possible, in particular our older people and vulnerable New Zealanders, that reduces the likelihood that they will get the flu and then suffer the sorts of illness that might put them in hospital," he said.
 "It's been important for us to prioritise those vulnerable groups early on. Hence, we started the vaccination campaign two weeks early."
 He reassured those who were "relatively healthy" there was a "very low level of influenza circulating in the community."
 While Bloomfield acknowledged there had been challenges around distribution of stock, he said any GP or pharmacy which had run out needed to get in touch with their local immunisation coordinator.