Almost half of Australia's students will have their educational outcomes damaged if existing remote learning arrangements continue long term, according to an expert group convened by Australia's chief scientist.
The Rapid Response Information Forum, chaired by chief scientist Alan Finkel and involving 35 research and science bodies led by the Australian Academy of Science, was commissioned by the federal government to provide advice on school operations during the coronavirus pandemic.
Its report to federal Education Minister Dan Tehan came as 1289 non-government schools took up the government's offer of a funding incentive to return to classrooms by the end of May.
The forum analysed research on the impact of online learning on education outcomes and found the limited available evidence suggested "an extended period of remote learning is likely to result in poorer educational outcomes for almost half of Australian students".
However, the group found remote learning could be effective if teachers and students were "adequately prepared and supported" with necessary technology and resources. They also concluded any negative impact might be negligible if the arrangements were short-term.
The peer-reviewed report found students from low socioeconomic backgrounds, Indigenous students, those with English as a second language, those with special learning needs, and rural and remote students were at particular risk of losing out from remote learning.
The researchers, who warned their findings should be treated with caution because of the limited evidence base, also pointed to evidence that "blended learning" – combining face-to-face and online learning – could be as effective as regular classroom arrangements.
Responding to the advice, Mr Tehan noted the potential for children's education to be harmed by extended online learning and warned: "It will be the vulnerable, poor, remote and Indigenous students who suffer the most."
Educational psychologist Andrew Martin, a contributing author on the report, said remote learning had been necessary during the pandemic and Australia was fortunate to have the technology to make it possible for most children.
"However, excessive and extended reliance on it is not a substitute for learning in the classroom with one's peers and teacher," Professor Martin said.
He said the adoption of blended learning in the coming weeks was an opportunity to learn how to do it more effectively.
Dr Finkel expressed concern about the likelihood of remote learning having a pronounced impact on disadvantaged children.
In a dramatic intervention targeting ongoing state government resistance to reopening schools, the federal government last week offered the independent and Catholic school sectors a 25 per cent advance on next year's $13 billion in funding if they have half their students in classrooms by June 1.
According to figures provided by the government, 1289 schools had applied for the advance by the midday Saturday deadline, representing almost half the nation's 2700 non-government schools.
"Our government has taken a consistent position to follow the expert medical advice and the expert medical advice has been consistent that schools are safe for students and teachers with the right protocols in place," Mr Tehan said.