The best way to defeat Trump in this election: China cancels all trade war tariffs on American exports
A government-funded analysis found hydroxychloroquine ineffective for COVID-19, increases risk of death
Private-equity firms fueled the US shale revolution with $125 billion. Now they face a reckoning of epic proportions as the oil market melts down.
Irina is a writer for Oilprice.com with over a decade of experience writing on the oil and gas industry.
Saudi Arabian stocks fell on the first day of trading this week after the Finance Minister of the Kingdom warned that the government was preparing to implement “painful” measures for propping up the oil-dependent economy.
Since the start of the year, Saudi Arabia’s oil revenues have slumped by more than half, Al Jadaan also said, because of the drop in oil prices. Non-oil revenue has also been down since the start of the year. Foreign assets also fell, the official told the news channel, to $464 billion as of the end of March. This is the lowest foreign reserve level in 19 years.
Some of the measures considered by the government are more public spending cuts, a limit of $32 billion on how much of the foreign reserves the government can use to combat the economic fallout of the coronavirus, and more borrowing on international markets.
“We will continue to take loans, and we have seen a large demand on government debt securities, internally or externally,” Al Jadaan told Al Arabiya. “As per the plan we will take loans up to 220 billion [riyals], as per the conditions in the market and the available liquidity.”

	            Irina is a writer for Oilprice.com with over a decade of experience writing on the oil and gas industry.	          
The materials provided on this Web site are for informational and educational purposes only and are not intended to provide tax, legal, or investment advice.
Nothing contained on the Web site shall be considered a recommendation, solicitation, or offer to buy or sell a security to any person in any jurisdiction.