Police in Malaysia have confirmed they are investigating a journalist over her reporting on mass raids targeting migrants and refugees amid the COVID-19 pandemic.
Sukumaran says she is being investigated under section 504 of Malaysia's penal code, which allows for up to two years' prison for "whoever intentionally insults, and thereby gives provocation to any person, intending or knowing it to be likely that such provocation will cause [them] to break the public peace".
Malaysia's Communications Minister Saifuddin Abdullah said he had asked the country's media regulator not to "act" against Sukumaran.
Amnesty International Malaysia called the arrests "an appalling violation of human rights and the persecution of an already marginalised community", adding it was a "clear abuse of power".
"Mass arrests being carried out in the middle of a pandemic are terrible enough, but reports of detainees being cramped into small vans, not provided masks, unable to practise social distancing is equally alarming," Amnesty head Preethi Bhardwaj said in a statement.
Mr Saifuddin released a statement declaring the Malaysian Government's "clear commitment to press freedom".
"At the same time, the freedom of the press must be in line with the principles of truth and justice," he said.
"In the era of 21st-century technology, the media not only play a role in disseminating transparent information, but also protecting the public from spreading false information that could threaten the stability and harmony of the country."
Watchdog organisation Reporters Without Borders has reported "the general environment for journalists is much more relaxed, self-censorship has declined dramatically and the print media are now offering a fuller and more balanced range of viewpoints".
Previously blacklisted journalists and media outlets were able to "resume working without fear of harassment", it said.
Defence Minister Ismail Sabri recently lashed out at Channel News Asia reporter Melissa Goh over her reporting about the treatment of migrants amid the Government's handling of coronavirus, accusing her of having "bad intentions".
Malaysia enacted strict lockdown restrictions on March 18, known locally as the movement control order.
Wonder how dangerous a gathering can be? Here's how one event sparked hundreds of coronavirus cases across Asia
Three charged in killing of US security guard over request to wear face mask to protect against coronavirus
This service may include material from Agence France-Presse (AFP), APTN, Reuters, AAP, CNN and the BBC World Service which is copyright and cannot be reproduced.