Open letter by photojournalist Sebastião Salgado and global figures warns disease could decimate indigenous peoples
In an open letter to the Brazilian president, Jair Bolsonaro, figures including Madonna, Oprah Winfrey, Brad Pitt, David Hockney and Paul McCartney warned the pandemic meant indigenous communities in the Amazon faced “an extreme threat to their very survival”.
“We are on the eve of a genocide,” Salgado, who has spent nearly four decades documenting the Amazon and its inhabitants, told the Guardian.
But the letter said the pandemic had made an already bleak outlook under Bolsonaro even worse by paralysing what protection efforts remained.
“As a result, there is nothing to protect indigenous peoples from the risk of genocide caused by an infection introduced by outsiders who enter their land illegally,” argued the signatories, who also include the supermodels Gisele Bündchen and Naomi Campbell, the author Mario Vargas Llosa, the artist Ai Weiwei, the architect Norman Foster and the actor Meryl Streep.
“When you endorse or encourage an act that you know will eliminate a population or part of a population, this is the definition of genocide … [It will be] genocide because we know this is going to happen, we are facilitating ... the entry of coronavirus ... [and therefore] permission is being given for the death of these indigenous people.”
“In some of the villages I knew measles killed 50% of the population. If Covid does the same thing it would be a massacre,” said Carlo Zaquini​, an Italian missionary who has spent decades working with the Yanomami.
“Just in the Brazilian Amazon we have 103 indigenous groups which have never been contacted – they represent humanity’s pre-history,” Salgado said. “We cannot allow all of this to disappear.”
WHO, Fauci and intel sources reject China lab theory; global deaths pass 250,000; Hong Kong suffers deepest economic contraction
While politicians in other countries are seeking consensus, Spain’s political adversaries are using virus as a cudgel