By clicking on the "Accept & Close" button, you provide your explicit consent to the processing of your data to achieve the above goal.
https://sputniknews.com/latam/202005041079186410-colombia-denies-involvement-in-failed-boat-invasion-of-venezuela/
MOSCOW (Sputnik) - Colombia is rejecting Venezuela’s claims that it was involved in the failed boat invasion on Sunday, Colombia’s Ministry of Foreign Affairs said in a statement.
"The Foreign Ministry, on behalf of the National Government, rejects the claims that have been made by the dictatorial regime of Venezuelan President Nicolas Maduro trying to blame our country for alleged destabilization events", the ministry said on Sunday.
The ministry claimed that the Venezuelan government is trying to deflect attention from the real problems in Venezuela, from the "internal crisis" it is facing.
Interior Minister Nestor Reverol said the attackers tried to invade the northern state of La Guaira on high-speed boats. Eight militants were killed and two others were captured, one of them was an agent of the US Drug Enforcement Administration, Reverol said.
Russian Ambassador in Caracas Sergey Melik-Bagdasarov said that the attempted boat invasion was organized in order to bring weapons to Venezuela to be later used to destabilize the situation in the country and stage a coup.
"It is widely known, and several media have reported on this multiple times, that in areas bordering Venezuela special military training camps are operating where they train militants, including former Venezuelan servicemen, deserters, who gave in for the promised 10,000 dollars. However, instead of a generous reward for their betrayal, they were recruited, convinced that now they need to free their homeland from dictatorship", Melik-Bagdasarov explained.
The Russian ambassador added that the United States supports the armed groups that organize various acts of sabotage and terror in Venezuela.
"On the night of 3 May, the Venezuelan security forces stopped another attempt to illegally import into the Venezuelan territory a batch of weapons used to organize terrorist attacks, various sabotage acts, and destabilize the situation in order to overthrow the legitimate government of Venezuela led by Nicolas Maduro. So who are these criminals who staged another coup attempt?" Melik-Bagdasarov said, adding that "it is such mercenaries - the products of a factory of terror and murder, fostered with the support of the US - that comprise such armed groups, one of which was neutralized today".

                
                Your comment contains a link, so it can't be published on our site
                
            
We are committed to protecting your personal information and we have updated our Privacy Policy to comply with the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR), a new EU regulation that went into effect on May 25, 2018.
Since you already shared your personal data with us when you created your personal account, to continue using it, please check the box below:
The fact of registration and authorization of users on Sputnik websites via users’ account or accounts on social networks indicates acceptance of these rules.
Users are obliged abide by national and international laws. Users are obliged to speak respectfully to the other participants in the discussion, readers and individuals referenced in the posts.
The websites’ administration has the right to delete comments made in languages ​​other than the language of the majority of the websites’ content.
promotes hatred and discrimination on racial, ethnic, sexual, religious or social basis or violates the rights of minorities;
contains insults, threats to other users, individuals or specific organizations, denigrates dignity or undermines business reputations;
violates privacy, distributes personal data of third parties without their consent or violates privacy of correspondence;
pursues commercial objectives, contains improper advertising, unlawful political advertisement or links to other online resources containing such information;
contains offensive language or profanity and its derivatives, as well as hints of the use of lexical items falling within this definition;
promotes the use of narcotic / psychotropic substances, provides information on their production and use;
is part of an organized action involving large volumes of comments with identical or similar content ("flash mob");
doesn’t follow standard rules of the English language, for example, is typed fully or mostly in capital letters or isn’t broken down into sentences.
The administration has the right to block a user’s access to the page or delete a user’s account without notice if the user is in violation of these rules or if behavior indicating said violation is detected.
In the case of repeated violations of the rules above resulting in a second block of a user’s account, access cannot be restored.