The  Environment Minister has ordered the first-ever review of Victoria’s native wildlife protection laws after an investigation into the killing of hundreds of wedge-tailed eagles concluded with no further charges being laid.
An investigation was launched in May 2018 by the environment department after it uncovered the remains of scores of eagles at a property in Tubbut, near the Snowy River National Park, in far east Gippsland.
Murray Silvester, the farm manager at the property, was charged with killing protected wildlife and pleaded guilty to the charges last year.
The landowner, local businessman John Auer, was charged by the Department of Jobs, Precincts and Regions with the misuse of agricultural chemicals in November last year.
12-month community correction order with the condition that he perform 100 hours of unpaid community work and ordered to pay $25,000 to the court fund
"Cases like these, where our native animals are killed in this way, rightly appal Victorians and they appal me," she said.
"The government has pursued all penalties for the parties available under existing legislation, and I have ordered a review of the Wildlife Act to look at how it can be strengthened."
Severe penalties can apply to those found guilty of serious offences under the Wildlife Act 1975, including imprisonment. Penalties for breaches of the chemical use legislation are mostly dealt with through fines.
"I just wouldn't have dreamed of those numbers. Bloody well done," Auer said in messages to his farm manager. The pair secretly referred to eagles as "foxes".
Silvester injected the carcasses of lambs, sheep and kangaroos with insecticide to use as bait to kill eagles.
There was no evidence that Auer killed any eagles himself and he was not charged with any offences under the Wildlife Act. The evidence only showed Auer encouraging Silvester.
In March 2017, the court documents showed, Auer supplied Silvester with a quantity of Lannate, an insecticide that contains methomyl, a substance toxic to humans and animals.
"With the assistance and encouragement of the accused, the farm manager poisoned wedge-tailed eagles across the accused's property up to 14 April, 2018," the court heard.
"The Lannate-L insecticide was injected by the farm manager into the carcasses of both sheep and kangaroos that were left out in paddocks for wedge-tailed eagles to feed on."
Magistrate Simon Garnett described Auer's offending as "calculated, unacceptable and disgraceful behaviour", and recognised the importance of the wedge-tailed eagle, particularly to the Indigenous community.
Birdlife Australia national public affairs manager Sean Dooley said they were disappointed in the outcome but supported the review.
"More than 400 wedge-tailed Eagles were killed - a vile act that could have serious implications for the eagle population across all of south-eastern Australia," he said.
"BirdLife Australia strongly supports the Victorian government’s announcement that they will review the Wildlife Act. Our nature laws must be stronger to ensure they actually protect our precious wildlife."
Experts say that, while recent incidents are shocking, the practice itself is neither new nor limited to Victoria. They worry it could have national consequences for the species if action isn’t taken.
In August last year, over 70 wedge-tailed eagles were among more than a hundred native birds found dead at a property near Violet Town, two hours north of Melbourne. An investigation into that incident is ongoing.
Killing native birds is prohibited under the Wildlife Act 1975. Information can be provided anonymously by phoning DELWP’s Customer Service Centre on 136 186 or Crime Stoppers on 1800 300 000.
Simone is a crime reporter for The Age. Most recently she covered breaking news for The Age, and before that for The Australian in Melbourne.