
											The U.S. Navy called its exercises an effort “to assert freedom of navigation and demonstrate seamless integration among allies.”										
The Russian Navy is tracking the first U.S. Navy warships to have entered the Barents Sea near Norway in more than 30 years, the Defense Ministry 
The guided-missile destroyers USS Donald Cook and USS Porter, the large supply vessel USNS Supply and the British frigate HMS Kent entered the Barents Sea after conducting 
 in the Norwegian Sea. The destroyer USS Roosevelt joined them in the Barents Sea for the security operation that the U.S. Navy called an effort “
“In these challenging times, it is more important than ever that we maintain our steady drumbeat of operations across the European theater, while taking prudent measures to protect the health of our force,” said its commander, Vice Adm. Lisa Franchetti.
Russia and NATO member Norway have both stepped up their military presence in the area after Russia annexed Crimea in 2014.
Norway’s absence from the 6th Fleet’s operation in the Barents Sea is an attempt to avoid escalating tensions with Russia, The Barents Observer 
Norway abstained from these exercises perhaps understanding the danger to its bilateral relationship with Russia from threatening Russia’s nuclear deterrence
Gjedssø Bertelsen, social sciences professor at the University of Tromsø – The Arctic University of Norway, as saying.
U.S.-made Poseidon jets have performed near-daily patrols of the area since the submarine drills started.

							The Moscow Times’ team of journalists has been first with the big stories on the coronavirus crisis in Russia since day one. Our exclusives and on-the-ground reporting are being read and shared by many high-profile journalists.
                        

							We wouldn’t be able to produce this crucial journalism without the support of our loyal readers. Please consider making a donation to The Moscow Times to help us continue covering this historic time in the world’s largest country.
						